doc/stdlib/libdl.rst, before:

.. module:: Libdl

****************
 Dynamic Linker
****************

.. function:: dlopen(libfile::AbstractString [, flags::Integer])

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Load a shared library, returning an opaque handle.

   The optional flags argument is a bitwise-or of zero or more of ``RTLD_LOCAL``\ , ``RTLD_GLOBAL``\ , ``RTLD_LAZY``\ , ``RTLD_NOW``\ , ``RTLD_NODELETE``\ , ``RTLD_NOLOAD``\ , ``RTLD_DEEPBIND``\ , and ``RTLD_FIRST``\ . These are converted to the corresponding flags of the POSIX (and/or GNU libc and/or MacOS) dlopen command, if possible, or are ignored if the specified functionality is not available on the current platform. The default flags are platform specific. On MacOS the default ``dlopen`` flags are ``RTLD_LAZY|RTLD_DEEPBIND|RTLD_GLOBAL`` while on other platforms the defaults are ``RTLD_LAZY|RTLD_DEEPBIND|RTLD_LOCAL``\ . An important usage of these flags is to specify non default behavior for when the dynamic library loader binds library references to exported symbols and if the bound references are put into process local or global scope. For instance ``RTLD_LAZY|RTLD_DEEPBIND|RTLD_GLOBAL`` allows the library's symbols to be available for usage in other shared libraries, addressing situations where there are dependencies between shared libraries.

.. function:: dlopen_e(libfile::AbstractString [, flags::Integer])

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Similar to :func:`dlopen`, except returns a ``NULL`` pointer instead of raising errors.

.. data:: RTLD_DEEPBIND

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_FIRST

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_GLOBAL

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_LAZY

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_LOCAL

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_NODELETE

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_NOLOAD

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_NOW

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. function:: dlsym(handle, sym)

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Look up a symbol from a shared library handle, return callable function pointer on success.

.. function:: dlsym_e(handle, sym)

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Look up a symbol from a shared library handle, silently return NULL pointer on lookup failure.

.. function:: dlclose(handle)

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Close shared library referenced by handle.

.. function:: find_library(names, locations)

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Searches for the first library in ``names`` in the paths in the ``locations`` list, ``DL_LOAD_PATH``\ , or system library paths (in that order) which can successfully be dlopen'd. On success, the return value will be one of the names (potentially prefixed by one of the paths in locations). This string can be assigned to a ``global const`` and used as the library name in future ``ccall``\ 's. On failure, it returns the empty string.

.. data:: DL_LOAD_PATH

   When calling ``dlopen``, the paths in this list will be searched first, in order, before searching the
   system locations for a valid library handle.

Commit message:

Add `Libdl.dlext` to documentation
fixes #12865

(cherry picked from commit b7697e70c3824b81e6b79a591d7f673b345e538c)

doc/stdlib/libdl.rst, after:

.. module:: Libdl

****************
 Dynamic Linker
****************

.. function:: dlopen(libfile::AbstractString [, flags::Integer])

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Load a shared library, returning an opaque handle.

   The optional flags argument is a bitwise-or of zero or more of ``RTLD_LOCAL``\ , ``RTLD_GLOBAL``\ , ``RTLD_LAZY``\ , ``RTLD_NOW``\ , ``RTLD_NODELETE``\ , ``RTLD_NOLOAD``\ , ``RTLD_DEEPBIND``\ , and ``RTLD_FIRST``\ . These are converted to the corresponding flags of the POSIX (and/or GNU libc and/or MacOS) dlopen command, if possible, or are ignored if the specified functionality is not available on the current platform. The default flags are platform specific. On MacOS the default ``dlopen`` flags are ``RTLD_LAZY|RTLD_DEEPBIND|RTLD_GLOBAL`` while on other platforms the defaults are ``RTLD_LAZY|RTLD_DEEPBIND|RTLD_LOCAL``\ . An important usage of these flags is to specify non default behavior for when the dynamic library loader binds library references to exported symbols and if the bound references are put into process local or global scope. For instance ``RTLD_LAZY|RTLD_DEEPBIND|RTLD_GLOBAL`` allows the library's symbols to be available for usage in other shared libraries, addressing situations where there are dependencies between shared libraries.

.. function:: dlopen_e(libfile::AbstractString [, flags::Integer])

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Similar to :func:`dlopen`, except returns a ``NULL`` pointer instead of raising errors.

.. data:: RTLD_DEEPBIND

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_FIRST

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_GLOBAL

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_LAZY

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_LOCAL

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_NODELETE

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_NOLOAD

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. data:: RTLD_NOW

   Enum constant for :func:`dlopen`. See your platform man page for details, if applicable.

.. function:: dlsym(handle, sym)

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Look up a symbol from a shared library handle, return callable function pointer on success.

.. function:: dlsym_e(handle, sym)

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Look up a symbol from a shared library handle, silently return NULL pointer on lookup failure.

.. function:: dlclose(handle)

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Close shared library referenced by handle.

.. data:: dlext

   File extension for dynamic libraries (e.g. dll, dylib, so) on the current platform.

.. function:: find_library(names, locations)

   .. Docstring generated from Julia source

   Searches for the first library in ``names`` in the paths in the ``locations`` list, ``DL_LOAD_PATH``\ , or system library paths (in that order) which can successfully be dlopen'd. On success, the return value will be one of the names (potentially prefixed by one of the paths in locations). This string can be assigned to a ``global const`` and used as the library name in future ``ccall``\ 's. On failure, it returns the empty string.

.. data:: DL_LOAD_PATH

   When calling ``dlopen``, the paths in this list will be searched first, in order, before searching the
   system locations for a valid library handle.
