.\" To get a preview of the man page as it will actually be displayed, run
.\"
.\" > nroff -man juliax.1 | less
.\"
.\" at the terminal.
.\"

.TH JULIAC 1 2023-09-01 JULIA

.\" from the front page of https://julialang.org/
.SH NAME
juliax - Experimental driver for the julia programming language

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjulia\fR [OPTIONS...] \fB--\fR PROGRAMMFILE

If a Julia source file is given as a \fIPROGRAMFILE\fP (optionally followed by
arguments in \fIARGS\fP) Julia will execute the program and exit.

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the unstable, experimental driver for the Julia programming language.
This interface is currently not stable across Julia versions. The behavior of
this driver matches that of
.BR julia (1)
except for the differences noted below.

.SH "COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS"

.TP
--math-mode=fast
In juliax, this option is an error. In
.BR julia (1)
this options is silently ignored.

.TP
--cli-mode
In juliax, this option is an error. In
.BR julia (1)
may be used to switch into juliax mode.

.SH FILES AND ENVIRONMENT
See https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/environment-variables/

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs using the GitHub issue tracker:
https://github.com/julialang/julia/issues?state=open

.SH AUTHORS
Contributors: https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/graphs/contributors

.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
Website:  https://julialang.org/
.br
Documentation:  https://docs.julialang.org/
.br
Downloads:  https://julialang.org/downloads/

.SH LICENSING
Julia is an open-source project. It is made available under the MIT license.
