.\" To get a preview of the man page as it will actually be displayed, run
.\"
.\" > nroff -man julia.1 | less
.\"
.\" at the terminal.
.\"
.\" Suggestions and improvements very much appreciated!
.\" Nothing is too large or too small.
.\" This man page was largely taken from pre-existing sources of documentation.
.\" This is documented by comments in the man page's source.
.\"
.\" # TODOs:
.\" 1. Simple, hopefully portable way to get the man page on everyone's manpath.
.\"    (The whole point was to be able to simply `man julia`!)
.\"
.\" Possible sections to add to man page:
.\" - licensing
.\" - internet resources and/or documentation
.\" - environment
.\" - see also
.\" - diagnostics
.\" - notes

.TH JULIA 1 2023-09-01 JULIA

.\" from the front page of https://julialang.org/
.SH NAME
julia - a high-level, high-performance dynamic programming language for technical computing

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjulia\fR [OPTIONS...] \fB--\fR [PROGRAMFILE] [ARGS...]

If a Julia source file is given as a \fIPROGRAMFILE\fP (optionally followed by
arguments in \fIARGS\fP) Julia will execute the program and exit.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Julia is a high-level, high-performance dynamic programming language
for technical computing, with syntax that is familiar to users
of other technical computing environments.
It provides a sophisticated compiler, distributed parallel execution,
numerical accuracy, and an extensive mathematical function library.
The library, largely written in Julia itself, also integrates mature,
best-of-breed C and Fortran libraries for linear algebra,
random number generation, signal processing, and string processing.
In addition, the Julia developer community is contributing a number of
external packages through Julia's built-in package manager at a rapid pace.
Julia programs are organized around multiple dispatch;
by defining functions and overloading them for different combinations
of argument types, which can also be user-defined.
For a more in-depth discussion of the rationale and advantages of Julia
over other systems, please see the online manual:
https://docs.julialang.org

.SH "COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS"

.TP
-v, --version
Display version information

.TP
-h, --help
Print command-line options (this message)

.TP
--help-hidden
Print uncommon options not shown by `-h`

.TP
--project[=<dir>/@.]
Set <dir> as the active project/environment. The default @. option will search
through parent directories until a Project.toml or JuliaProject.toml file is
found.

.TP
-J, --sysimage <file>
Start up with the given system image file

.TP
-H, --home <dir>
Set location of `julia` executable

.TP
--startup-file={yes*|no}
Load `JULIA_DEPOT_PATH/config/startup.jl`; if `JULIA_DEPOT_PATH`
environment variable is unset, load `~/.julia/config/startup.jl`

.TP
--handle-signals={yes*|no}
Enable or disable Julia's default signal handlers

.TP
--sysimage-native-code={yes*|no}
Use native code from system image if available

.TP
--compiled-modules={yes*|no|existing|strict}
Enable or disable incremental precompilation of modules.
The `existing` option allows use of existing compiled modules that were
previously precompiled, but disallows creation of new precompile files.
The `strict` option is similar, but will error if no precompile file is found.

.TP
--pkgimages={yes*|no|existing}
Enable or disable usage of native code caching in the form of pkgimages
The `existing` option allows use of existing pkgimages but disallows creation of new ones

.TP
-e, --eval <expr>
Evaluate <expr>

.TP
-E, --print <expr>
Evaluate <expr> and display the result

.TP
-m, --module <Package> [args]
Run entry point of `Package` (`@main` function) with `args'

.TP
-L, --load <file>
Load <file> immediately on all processors

.TP
-t, --threads {auto|N[,auto|M]}
Enable N[+M] threads; N threads are assigned to the `default`
threadpool, and if M is specified, M threads are assigned to the
`interactive` threadpool; `auto` tries to infer a useful
default number of threads to use but the exact behavior might change
in the future. Currently sets N to the number of CPUs assigned to
this Julia process based on the OS-specific affinity assignment
interface if supported (Linux and Windows) or to the number of CPU
threads if not supported (MacOS) or if process affinity is not
configured, and sets M to 1.

.TP
--gcthreads=N[,M]
Use N threads for the mark phase of GC and M (0 or 1) threads for the concurrent sweeping phase of GC.
N is set to the number of compute threads and M is set to 0 if unspecified.

.TP
-p, --procs {N|auto}
Integer value N launches N additional local worker processes `auto` launches as many workers
as the number of local CPU threads (logical cores)

.TP
--machine-file <file>
Run processes on hosts listed in <file>

.TP
-i, --interactive
Interactive mode; REPL runs and `isinteractive()` is true

.TP
-q, --quiet
Quiet startup: no banner, suppress REPL warnings

.TP
--banner={yes|no|short|auto*}
Enable or disable startup banner

.TP
--color={yes|no|auto*}
Enable or disable color text

.TP
--history-file={yes*|no}
Load or save history

.TP
--depwarn={yes|no*|error}
Enable or disable syntax and method deprecation warnings (`error` turns warnings into errors)

.TP
--warn-overwrite={yes|no*}
Enable or disable method overwrite warnings

.TP
--warn-scope={yes*|no}
Enable or disable warning for ambiguous top-level scope

.TP
-C, --cpu-target=<target>
Limit usage of CPU features up to <target>; set to `help` to see the available options

.TP
-O, --optimize={0|1|2*|3}
Set the optimization level (level 3 if `-O` is used without a level)

.TP
--min-optlevel={0*|1|2|3}
Set a lower bound on the optimization level

.TP
-g, --debug-info={0|1*|2}
Set the level of debug info generation (level 2 if `-g` is used without a level)

.TP
--inline={yes*|no}
Control whether inlining is permitted, including overriding @inline declarations

.TP
--check-bounds={yes|no|auto*}
Emit bounds checks always, never, or respect @inbounds declarations

.TP
--math-mode={ieee|user*}
Always follow `ieee` floating point semantics or respect `@fastmath` declarations

.TP
--polly={yes*|no}
Enable or disable the polyhedral optimizer Polly (overrides @polly declaration)

.TP
--code-coverage[={none*|user|all}]
Count executions of source lines (omitting setting is equivalent to `user`)

.TP
--code-coverage=@<path>
Count executions of source lines in a file or files under a given directory. A `@` must
be placed before the path to indicate this option. A `@` with no path will track the current directory.

.TP
--code-coverage=tracefile.info
Append coverage information to the LCOV tracefile (filename supports format tokens)

.TP
--track-allocation[={none*|user|all}]
Count bytes allocated by each source line (omitting setting is equivalent to `user`)

.TP
--track-allocation=@<path>
Count bytes but only in files that fall under the given file path/directory.
The `@` prefix is required to select this option. A `@` with no path will track the current directory.

.TP
--bug-report=KIND
Launch a bug report session. It can be used to start a REPL, run a script, or evaluate
expressions. It first tries to use BugReporting.jl installed in current environment and
fallbacks to the latest compatible BugReporting.jl if not. For more information, see
--bug-report=help.

.TP
--heap-size-hint=<size>
Forces garbage collection if memory usage is higher than the given value.
The value may be specified as a number of bytes, optionally in units of
KB, MB, GB, or TB, or as a percentage of physical memory with %.

.TP
--compile={yes*|no|all|min}
Enable or disable JIT compiler, or request exhaustive or minimal compilation

.TP
--output-o <name>
Generate an object file (including system image data)

.TP
--output-ji <name>
Generate a system image data file (.ji)

.TP
--strip-metadata
Remove docstrings and source location info from system image

.TP
--strip-ir
Remove IR (intermediate representation) of compiled functions

.TP
--output-unopt-bc <name>
Generate unoptimized LLVM bitcode (.bc)

.TP
--output-bc <name>
Generate LLVM bitcode (.bc)

.TP
--output-asm <name>
Generate an assembly file (.s)

.TP
--output-incremental={yes|no*}
Generate an incremental output file (rather than complete)

.TP
--trace-compile={stderr|name}
Print precompile statements for methods compiled during execution or save to stderr or a path.
Methods that were recompiled are printed in yellow or with a trailing comment if color is not supported

.TP
--trace-compile-timing=
If --trace-compile is enabled show how long each took to compile in ms

.TP
--trace-dispatch={stderr|name}
Print precompile statements for methods dispatched during execution or save to stderr or a path.

.TP
--task-metrics={yes|no*}
Enable the collection of per-task metrics.

.TP
-image-codegen
Force generate code in imaging mode

.TP
--permalloc-pkgimg={yes|no*}
Copy the data section of package images into memory

.SH FILES AND ENVIRONMENT
See https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/environment-variables/

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs using the GitHub issue tracker:
https://github.com/julialang/julia/issues?state=open

.SH AUTHORS
Contributors: https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/graphs/contributors

.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
Website:  https://julialang.org/
.br
Documentation:  https://docs.julialang.org/
.br
Install:  https://julialang.org/install/

.SH LICENSING
Julia is an open-source project. It is made available under the MIT license.
