doc/src/manual/documentation.md, before:

# Documentation

Julia enables package developers and users to document functions, types and other objects easily
via a built-in documentation system since Julia 0.4.

The basic syntax is simple: any string appearing at the toplevel right before an object
(function, macro, type or instance) will be interpreted as documenting it (these are called
*docstrings*). Note that no blank lines or comments may intervene between a docstring and
the documented object. Here is a basic example:

```julia
"Tell whether there are too foo items in the array."
foo(xs::Array) = ...
```

Documentation is interpreted as [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown), so you can
use indentation and code fences to delimit code examples from text. Technically, any object can
be associated with any other as metadata; Markdown happens to be the default, but one can construct
other string macros and pass them to the `@doc` macro just as well.

!!! note
    Markdown support is implemented in the `Markdown` standard library
    and for a full list of supported syntax see the
    [documentation](@ref markdown_stdlib).

Here is a more complex example, still using Markdown:

````julia
"""
    bar(x[, y])

Compute the Bar index between `x` and `y`. If `y` is missing, compute
the Bar index between all pairs of columns of `x`.

# Examples
```julia-repl
julia> bar([1, 2], [1, 2])
1
```
"""
function bar(x, y) ...
````

As in the example above, we recommend following some simple conventions when writing documentation:

1. Always show the signature of a function at the top of the documentation, with a four-space indent
   so that it is printed as Julia code.

   This can be identical to the signature present in the Julia code (like `mean(x::AbstractArray)`),
   or a simplified form. Optional arguments should be represented with their default values (i.e.
   `f(x, y=1)`) when possible, following the actual Julia syntax. Optional arguments which do not
   have a default value should be put in brackets (i.e. `f(x[, y])` and `f(x[, y[, z]])`). An alternative
   solution is to use several lines: one without optional arguments, the other(s) with them. This
   solution can also be used to document several related methods of a given function. When a function
   accepts many keyword arguments, only include a `<keyword arguments>` placeholder in the signature
   (i.e. `f(x; <keyword arguments>)`), and give the complete list under an `# Arguments` section
   (see point 4 below).
2. Include a single one-line sentence describing what the function does or what the object represents
   after the simplified signature block. If needed, provide more details in a second paragraph, after
   a blank line.

   The one-line sentence should use the imperative form ("Do this", "Return that") instead of the
   third person (do not write "Returns the length...") when documenting functions. It should end
   with a period. If the meaning of a function cannot be summarized easily, splitting it into separate
   composable parts could be beneficial (this should not be taken as an absolute requirement for
   every single case though).
3. Do not repeat yourself.

   Since the function name is given by the signature, there is no need to start the documentation
   with "The function `bar`...": go straight to the point. Similarly, if the signature specifies
   the types of the arguments, mentioning them in the description is redundant.
4. Only provide an argument list when really necessary.

   For simple functions, it is often clearer to mention the role of the arguments directly in the
   description of the function's purpose. An argument list would only repeat information already
   provided elsewhere. However, providing an argument list can be a good idea for complex functions
   with many arguments (in particular keyword arguments). In that case, insert it after the general
   description of the function, under an `# Arguments` header, with one `-` bullet for each argument.
   The list should mention the types and default values (if any) of the arguments:

   ```julia
   """
   ...
   # Arguments
   - `n::Integer`: the number of elements to compute.
   - `dim::Integer=1`: the dimensions along which to perform the computation.
   ...
   """
   ```
5. Provide hints to related functions.

   Sometimes there are functions of related functionality. To increase discoverability please provide
   a short list of these in a `See also:` paragraph.

   ```
   See also: [`bar!`](@ref), [`baz`](@ref), [`baaz`](@ref)
   ```
6. Include any code examples in an `# Examples` section.

   Examples should, whenever possible, be written as *doctests*. A *doctest* is a fenced code block
   (see [Code blocks](@ref)) starting with ````` ```jldoctest````` and contains any number of `julia>`
   prompts together with inputs and expected outputs that mimic the Julia REPL.

   !!! note
       Doctests are enabled by [`Documenter.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDocs/Documenter.jl).
       For more detailed documentation see Documenter's
       [manual](https://juliadocs.github.io/Documenter.jl/).

   For example in the following docstring a variable `a` is defined and the expected result, as printed
   in a Julia REPL, appears afterwards:

   ````julia
   """
   Some nice documentation here.

   # Examples
   ```jldoctest
   julia> a = [1 2; 3 4]
   2×2 Array{Int64,2}:
    1  2
    3  4
   ```
   """
   ````

   !!! warning
       Calling `rand` and other RNG-related functions should be avoided in doctests since they will not
       produce consistent outputs during different Julia sessions. If you would like to show some random
       number generation related functionality, one option is to explicitly construct and seed your own
       [`MersenneTwister`](@ref) (or other pseudorandom number generator) and pass it to the functions you are
       doctesting.

       Operating system word size ([`Int32`](@ref) or [`Int64`](@ref)) as well as path separator differences
       (`/` or `\`) will also affect the reproducibility of some doctests.

       Note that whitespace in your doctest is significant! The doctest will fail if you misalign the
       output of pretty-printing an array, for example.

   You can then run `make -C doc doctest=true` to run all the doctests in the Julia Manual and API
   documentation, which will ensure that your example works.

   To indicate that the output result is truncated, you may write
   `[...]` at the line where checking should stop. This is useful to
   hide a stacktrace (which contains non-permanent references to lines
   of julia code) when the doctest shows that an exception is thrown,
   for example:

   ````julia
   ```jldoctest
   julia> div(1, 0)
   ERROR: DivideError: integer division error
   [...]
   ```
   ````

   Examples that are untestable should be written within fenced code blocks starting with ````` ```julia`````
   so that they are highlighted correctly in the generated documentation.

   !!! tip
       Wherever possible examples should be **self-contained** and **runnable** so that readers are able
       to try them out without having to include any dependencies.
7. Use backticks to identify code and equations.

   Julia identifiers and code excerpts should always appear between backticks ``` ` ``` to enable
   highlighting. Equations in the LaTeX syntax can be inserted between double backticks ``` `` ```.
   Use Unicode characters rather than their LaTeX escape sequence, i.e. ``` ``α = 1`` ``` rather
   than ``` ``\\alpha = 1`` ```.
8. Place the starting and ending `"""` characters on lines by themselves.

   That is, write:

   ```julia
   """
   ...

   ...
   """
   f(x, y) = ...
   ```

   rather than:

   ```julia
   """...

   ..."""
   f(x, y) = ...
   ```

   This makes it clearer where docstrings start and end.
9. Respect the line length limit used in the surrounding code.

   Docstrings are edited using the same tools as code. Therefore, the same conventions should apply.
   It is recommended that lines are at most 92 characters wide.
6. Provide information allowing custom types to implement the function in an
   `# Implementation` section. These implementation details are intended for developers
   rather than users, explaining e.g. which functions should be overridden and which
   functions automatically use appropriate fallbacks. Such details are best kept separate
   from the main description of the function's behavior.
5. For long docstrings, consider splitting the documentation with an
   `# Extended help` header. The typical help-mode will show only the
   material above the header; you can access the full help by adding a '?'
   at the beginning of the expression (i.e., "??foo" rather than "?foo").

## Accessing Documentation

Documentation can be accessed at the REPL or in [IJulia](https://github.com/JuliaLang/IJulia.jl)
by typing `?` followed by the name of a function or macro, and pressing `Enter`. For example,

```julia
?cos
?@time
?r""
```

will show documentation for the relevant function, macro or string macro respectively. In
[Juno](http://junolab.org) using `Ctrl-J, Ctrl-D` will show the documentation for the object
under the cursor.

## Functions & Methods

Functions in Julia may have multiple implementations, known as methods. While it's good practice
for generic functions to have a single purpose, Julia allows methods to be documented individually
if necessary. In general, only the most generic method should be documented, or even the function
itself (i.e. the object created without any methods by `function bar end`). Specific methods should
only be documented if their behaviour differs from the more generic ones. In any case, they should
not repeat the information provided elsewhere. For example:

```julia
"""
    *(x, y, z...)

Multiplication operator. `x * y * z *...` calls this function with multiple
arguments, i.e. `*(x, y, z...)`.
"""
function *(x, y, z...)
    # ... [implementation sold separately] ...
end

"""
    *(x::AbstractString, y::AbstractString, z::AbstractString...)

When applied to strings, concatenates them.
"""
function *(x::AbstractString, y::AbstractString, z::AbstractString...)
    # ... [insert secret sauce here] ...
end

help?> *
search: * .*

  *(x, y, z...)

  Multiplication operator. x * y * z *... calls this function with multiple
  arguments, i.e. *(x,y,z...).

  *(x::AbstractString, y::AbstractString, z::AbstractString...)

  When applied to strings, concatenates them.
```

When retrieving documentation for a generic function, the metadata for each method is concatenated
with the `catdoc` function, which can of course be overridden for custom types.

## Advanced Usage

The `@doc` macro associates its first argument with its second in a per-module dictionary called
`META`.

To make it easier to write documentation, the parser treats the macro name `@doc` specially:
if a call to `@doc` has one argument, but another expression appears after a single line
break, then that additional expression is added as an argument to the macro.
Therefore the following syntax is parsed as a 2-argument call to `@doc`:

```julia
@doc raw"""
...
"""
f(x) = x
```

This makes it possible to use expressions other than normal string literals (such as the `raw""` string macro) as a docstring.

When used for retrieving documentation, the `@doc` macro (or equally, the `doc` function) will
search all `META` dictionaries for metadata relevant to the given object and return it. The returned
object (some Markdown content, for example) will by default display itself intelligently. This
design also makes it easy to use the doc system in a programmatic way; for example, to re-use
documentation between different versions of a function:

```julia
@doc "..." foo!
@doc (@doc foo!) foo
```

Or for use with Julia's metaprogramming functionality:

```julia
for (f, op) in ((:add, :+), (:subtract, :-), (:multiply, :*), (:divide, :/))
    @eval begin
        $f(a,b) = $op(a,b)
    end
end
@doc "`add(a,b)` adds `a` and `b` together" add
@doc "`subtract(a,b)` subtracts `b` from `a`" subtract
```

Documentation written in non-toplevel blocks, such as `begin`, `if`, `for`, and `let`, is
added to the documentation system as blocks are evaluated. For example:

```julia
if condition()
    "..."
    f(x) = x
end
```

will add documentation to `f(x)` when `condition()` is `true`. Note that even if `f(x)` goes
out of scope at the end of the block, its documentation will remain.

### Dynamic documentation

Sometimes the appropriate documentation for an instance of a type depends on the field values of that
instance, rather than just on the type itself. In these cases, you can add a method to `Docs.getdoc`
for your custom type that returns the documentation on a per-instance basis. For instance,

```julia
struct MyType
    value::String
end

Docs.getdoc(t::MyType) = "Documentation for MyType with value $(t.value)"

x = MyType("x")
y = MyType("y")
```

`?x` will display "Documentation for MyType with value x" while `?y` will display
"Documentation for MyType with value y".

## Syntax Guide

This guide provides a comprehensive overview of how to attach documentation to all Julia syntax
constructs for which providing documentation is possible.

In the following examples `"..."` is used to illustrate an arbitrary docstring.

### `$` and `\` characters

The `$` and `\` characters are still parsed as string interpolation or start of an escape sequence
in docstrings too. The `raw""` string macro together with the `@doc` macro can be used to avoid
having to escape them. This is handy when the docstrings include LaTeX or Julia source code examples
containing interpolation:

````julia
@doc raw"""
```math
\LaTeX
```
"""
function f end
````

### Functions and Methods

```julia
"..."
function f end

"..."
f
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the function `f`. The first version is the preferred syntax, however both
are equivalent.

```julia
"..."
f(x) = x

"..."
function f(x)
    x
end

"..."
f(x)
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the method `f(::Any)`.

```julia
"..."
f(x, y = 1) = x + y
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to two `Method`s, namely `f(::Any)` and `f(::Any, ::Any)`.

### Macros

```julia
"..."
macro m(x) end
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the `@m(::Any)` macro definition.

```julia
"..."
:(@m)
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the macro named `@m`.

### Types

```
"..."
abstract type T1 end

"..."
mutable struct T2
    ...
end

"..."
struct T3
    ...
end
```

Adds the docstring `"..."` to types `T1`, `T2`, and `T3`.

```julia
"..."
struct T
    "x"
    x
    "y"
    y
end
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to type `T`, `"x"` to field `T.x` and `"y"` to field `T.y`. Also applicable
to `mutable struct` types.

### Modules

```julia
"..."
module M end

module M

"..."
M

end
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the `Module` `M`. Adding the docstring above the `Module` is the preferred
syntax, however both are equivalent.

```julia
"..."
baremodule M
# ...
end

baremodule M

import Base: @doc

"..."
f(x) = x

end
```

Documenting a `baremodule` by placing a docstring above the expression automatically imports
`@doc` into the module. These imports must be done manually when the module expression is not
documented. Empty `baremodule`s cannot be documented.

### Global Variables

```julia
"..."
const a = 1

"..."
b = 2

"..."
global c = 3
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the `Binding`s `a`, `b`, and `c`.

`Binding`s are used to store a reference to a particular `Symbol` in a `Module` without storing
the referenced value itself.

!!! note
    When a `const` definition is only used to define an alias of another definition, such as is the
    case with the function `div` and its alias `÷` in `Base`, do not document the alias and instead
    document the actual function.

    If the alias is documented and not the real definition then the docsystem (`?` mode) will not
    return the docstring attached to the alias when the real definition is searched for.

    For example you should write

    ```julia
    "..."
    f(x) = x + 1
    const alias = f
    ```

    rather than

    ```julia
    f(x) = x + 1
    "..."
    const alias = f
    ```

```julia
"..."
sym
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the value associated with `sym`. However, it is preferred that
`sym` is documented where it is defined.

### Multiple Objects

```julia
"..."
a, b
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to `a` and `b` each of which should be a documentable expression. This
syntax is equivalent to

```julia
"..."
a

"..."
b
```

Any number of expressions many be documented together in this way. This syntax can be useful when
two functions are related, such as non-mutating and mutating versions `f` and `f!`.

### Macro-generated code

```julia
"..."
@m expression
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the expression generated by expanding `@m expression`. This allows
for expressions decorated with `@inline`, `@noinline`, `@generated`, or any other macro to
be documented in the same way as undecorated expressions.

Macro authors should take note that only macros that generate a single expression will automatically
support docstrings. If a macro returns a block containing multiple subexpressions then the subexpression
that should be documented must be marked using the [`@__doc__`](@ref Core.@__doc__) macro.

The [`@enum`](@ref) macro makes use of `@__doc__` to allow for documenting [`Enum`](@ref)s.
Examining its definition
should serve as an example of how to use `@__doc__` correctly.

```@docs
Core.@__doc__
```

Commit message:

Add example of doc generation with metaprogramming (#15363)

doc/src/manual/documentation.md, after:

# Documentation

Julia enables package developers and users to document functions, types and other objects easily
via a built-in documentation system since Julia 0.4.

The basic syntax is simple: any string appearing at the toplevel right before an object
(function, macro, type or instance) will be interpreted as documenting it (these are called
*docstrings*). Note that no blank lines or comments may intervene between a docstring and
the documented object. Here is a basic example:

```julia
"Tell whether there are too foo items in the array."
foo(xs::Array) = ...
```

Documentation is interpreted as [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown), so you can
use indentation and code fences to delimit code examples from text. Technically, any object can
be associated with any other as metadata; Markdown happens to be the default, but one can construct
other string macros and pass them to the `@doc` macro just as well.

!!! note
    Markdown support is implemented in the `Markdown` standard library
    and for a full list of supported syntax see the
    [documentation](@ref markdown_stdlib).

Here is a more complex example, still using Markdown:

````julia
"""
    bar(x[, y])

Compute the Bar index between `x` and `y`. If `y` is missing, compute
the Bar index between all pairs of columns of `x`.

# Examples
```julia-repl
julia> bar([1, 2], [1, 2])
1
```
"""
function bar(x, y) ...
````

As in the example above, we recommend following some simple conventions when writing documentation:

1. Always show the signature of a function at the top of the documentation, with a four-space indent
   so that it is printed as Julia code.

   This can be identical to the signature present in the Julia code (like `mean(x::AbstractArray)`),
   or a simplified form. Optional arguments should be represented with their default values (i.e.
   `f(x, y=1)`) when possible, following the actual Julia syntax. Optional arguments which do not
   have a default value should be put in brackets (i.e. `f(x[, y])` and `f(x[, y[, z]])`). An alternative
   solution is to use several lines: one without optional arguments, the other(s) with them. This
   solution can also be used to document several related methods of a given function. When a function
   accepts many keyword arguments, only include a `<keyword arguments>` placeholder in the signature
   (i.e. `f(x; <keyword arguments>)`), and give the complete list under an `# Arguments` section
   (see point 4 below).
2. Include a single one-line sentence describing what the function does or what the object represents
   after the simplified signature block. If needed, provide more details in a second paragraph, after
   a blank line.

   The one-line sentence should use the imperative form ("Do this", "Return that") instead of the
   third person (do not write "Returns the length...") when documenting functions. It should end
   with a period. If the meaning of a function cannot be summarized easily, splitting it into separate
   composable parts could be beneficial (this should not be taken as an absolute requirement for
   every single case though).
3. Do not repeat yourself.

   Since the function name is given by the signature, there is no need to start the documentation
   with "The function `bar`...": go straight to the point. Similarly, if the signature specifies
   the types of the arguments, mentioning them in the description is redundant.
4. Only provide an argument list when really necessary.

   For simple functions, it is often clearer to mention the role of the arguments directly in the
   description of the function's purpose. An argument list would only repeat information already
   provided elsewhere. However, providing an argument list can be a good idea for complex functions
   with many arguments (in particular keyword arguments). In that case, insert it after the general
   description of the function, under an `# Arguments` header, with one `-` bullet for each argument.
   The list should mention the types and default values (if any) of the arguments:

   ```julia
   """
   ...
   # Arguments
   - `n::Integer`: the number of elements to compute.
   - `dim::Integer=1`: the dimensions along which to perform the computation.
   ...
   """
   ```
5. Provide hints to related functions.

   Sometimes there are functions of related functionality. To increase discoverability please provide
   a short list of these in a `See also:` paragraph.

   ```
   See also: [`bar!`](@ref), [`baz`](@ref), [`baaz`](@ref)
   ```
6. Include any code examples in an `# Examples` section.

   Examples should, whenever possible, be written as *doctests*. A *doctest* is a fenced code block
   (see [Code blocks](@ref)) starting with ````` ```jldoctest````` and contains any number of `julia>`
   prompts together with inputs and expected outputs that mimic the Julia REPL.

   !!! note
       Doctests are enabled by [`Documenter.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaDocs/Documenter.jl).
       For more detailed documentation see Documenter's
       [manual](https://juliadocs.github.io/Documenter.jl/).

   For example in the following docstring a variable `a` is defined and the expected result, as printed
   in a Julia REPL, appears afterwards:

   ````julia
   """
   Some nice documentation here.

   # Examples
   ```jldoctest
   julia> a = [1 2; 3 4]
   2×2 Array{Int64,2}:
    1  2
    3  4
   ```
   """
   ````

   !!! warning
       Calling `rand` and other RNG-related functions should be avoided in doctests since they will not
       produce consistent outputs during different Julia sessions. If you would like to show some random
       number generation related functionality, one option is to explicitly construct and seed your own
       [`MersenneTwister`](@ref) (or other pseudorandom number generator) and pass it to the functions you are
       doctesting.

       Operating system word size ([`Int32`](@ref) or [`Int64`](@ref)) as well as path separator differences
       (`/` or `\`) will also affect the reproducibility of some doctests.

       Note that whitespace in your doctest is significant! The doctest will fail if you misalign the
       output of pretty-printing an array, for example.

   You can then run `make -C doc doctest=true` to run all the doctests in the Julia Manual and API
   documentation, which will ensure that your example works.

   To indicate that the output result is truncated, you may write
   `[...]` at the line where checking should stop. This is useful to
   hide a stacktrace (which contains non-permanent references to lines
   of julia code) when the doctest shows that an exception is thrown,
   for example:

   ````julia
   ```jldoctest
   julia> div(1, 0)
   ERROR: DivideError: integer division error
   [...]
   ```
   ````

   Examples that are untestable should be written within fenced code blocks starting with ````` ```julia`````
   so that they are highlighted correctly in the generated documentation.

   !!! tip
       Wherever possible examples should be **self-contained** and **runnable** so that readers are able
       to try them out without having to include any dependencies.
7. Use backticks to identify code and equations.

   Julia identifiers and code excerpts should always appear between backticks ``` ` ``` to enable
   highlighting. Equations in the LaTeX syntax can be inserted between double backticks ``` `` ```.
   Use Unicode characters rather than their LaTeX escape sequence, i.e. ``` ``α = 1`` ``` rather
   than ``` ``\\alpha = 1`` ```.
8. Place the starting and ending `"""` characters on lines by themselves.

   That is, write:

   ```julia
   """
   ...

   ...
   """
   f(x, y) = ...
   ```

   rather than:

   ```julia
   """...

   ..."""
   f(x, y) = ...
   ```

   This makes it clearer where docstrings start and end.
9. Respect the line length limit used in the surrounding code.

   Docstrings are edited using the same tools as code. Therefore, the same conventions should apply.
   It is recommended that lines are at most 92 characters wide.
6. Provide information allowing custom types to implement the function in an
   `# Implementation` section. These implementation details are intended for developers
   rather than users, explaining e.g. which functions should be overridden and which
   functions automatically use appropriate fallbacks. Such details are best kept separate
   from the main description of the function's behavior.
5. For long docstrings, consider splitting the documentation with an
   `# Extended help` header. The typical help-mode will show only the
   material above the header; you can access the full help by adding a '?'
   at the beginning of the expression (i.e., "??foo" rather than "?foo").

## Accessing Documentation

Documentation can be accessed at the REPL or in [IJulia](https://github.com/JuliaLang/IJulia.jl)
by typing `?` followed by the name of a function or macro, and pressing `Enter`. For example,

```julia
?cos
?@time
?r""
```

will show documentation for the relevant function, macro or string macro respectively. In
[Juno](http://junolab.org) using `Ctrl-J, Ctrl-D` will show the documentation for the object
under the cursor.

## Functions & Methods

Functions in Julia may have multiple implementations, known as methods. While it's good practice
for generic functions to have a single purpose, Julia allows methods to be documented individually
if necessary. In general, only the most generic method should be documented, or even the function
itself (i.e. the object created without any methods by `function bar end`). Specific methods should
only be documented if their behaviour differs from the more generic ones. In any case, they should
not repeat the information provided elsewhere. For example:

```julia
"""
    *(x, y, z...)

Multiplication operator. `x * y * z *...` calls this function with multiple
arguments, i.e. `*(x, y, z...)`.
"""
function *(x, y, z...)
    # ... [implementation sold separately] ...
end

"""
    *(x::AbstractString, y::AbstractString, z::AbstractString...)

When applied to strings, concatenates them.
"""
function *(x::AbstractString, y::AbstractString, z::AbstractString...)
    # ... [insert secret sauce here] ...
end

help?> *
search: * .*

  *(x, y, z...)

  Multiplication operator. x * y * z *... calls this function with multiple
  arguments, i.e. *(x,y,z...).

  *(x::AbstractString, y::AbstractString, z::AbstractString...)

  When applied to strings, concatenates them.
```

When retrieving documentation for a generic function, the metadata for each method is concatenated
with the `catdoc` function, which can of course be overridden for custom types.

## Advanced Usage

The `@doc` macro associates its first argument with its second in a per-module dictionary called
`META`.

To make it easier to write documentation, the parser treats the macro name `@doc` specially:
if a call to `@doc` has one argument, but another expression appears after a single line
break, then that additional expression is added as an argument to the macro.
Therefore the following syntax is parsed as a 2-argument call to `@doc`:

```julia
@doc raw"""
...
"""
f(x) = x
```

This makes it possible to use expressions other than normal string literals (such as the `raw""` string macro) as a docstring.

When used for retrieving documentation, the `@doc` macro (or equally, the `doc` function) will
search all `META` dictionaries for metadata relevant to the given object and return it. The returned
object (some Markdown content, for example) will by default display itself intelligently. This
design also makes it easy to use the doc system in a programmatic way; for example, to re-use
documentation between different versions of a function:

```julia
@doc "..." foo!
@doc (@doc foo!) foo
```

Or for use with Julia's metaprogramming functionality:

```julia
for (f, op) in ((:add, :+), (:subtract, :-), (:multiply, :*), (:divide, :/))
    @eval begin
        $f(a,b) = $op(a,b)
    end
end
@doc "`add(a,b)` adds `a` and `b` together" add
@doc "`subtract(a,b)` subtracts `b` from `a`" subtract
```

Documentation written in non-toplevel blocks, such as `begin`, `if`, `for`, and `let`, is
added to the documentation system as blocks are evaluated. For example:

```julia
if condition()
    "..."
    f(x) = x
end
```

will add documentation to `f(x)` when `condition()` is `true`. Note that even if `f(x)` goes
out of scope at the end of the block, its documentation will remain.

It is possible to make use of metaprogramming to assist in the creation of documentation.
When using string-interpolation within the docstring you will need to use an extra `$` as
shown with `$($name)`:

```julia
for func in (:day, :dayofmonth)
    name = string(func)
    @eval begin
        @doc """
            $($name)(dt::TimeType) -> Int64

        The day of month of a `Date` or `DateTime` as an `Int64`.
        """ $func(dt::Dates.TimeType)
    end
end
```

### Dynamic documentation

Sometimes the appropriate documentation for an instance of a type depends on the field values of that
instance, rather than just on the type itself. In these cases, you can add a method to `Docs.getdoc`
for your custom type that returns the documentation on a per-instance basis. For instance,

```julia
struct MyType
    value::String
end

Docs.getdoc(t::MyType) = "Documentation for MyType with value $(t.value)"

x = MyType("x")
y = MyType("y")
```

`?x` will display "Documentation for MyType with value x" while `?y` will display
"Documentation for MyType with value y".

## Syntax Guide

This guide provides a comprehensive overview of how to attach documentation to all Julia syntax
constructs for which providing documentation is possible.

In the following examples `"..."` is used to illustrate an arbitrary docstring.

### `$` and `\` characters

The `$` and `\` characters are still parsed as string interpolation or start of an escape sequence
in docstrings too. The `raw""` string macro together with the `@doc` macro can be used to avoid
having to escape them. This is handy when the docstrings include LaTeX or Julia source code examples
containing interpolation:

````julia
@doc raw"""
```math
\LaTeX
```
"""
function f end
````

### Functions and Methods

```julia
"..."
function f end

"..."
f
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the function `f`. The first version is the preferred syntax, however both
are equivalent.

```julia
"..."
f(x) = x

"..."
function f(x)
    x
end

"..."
f(x)
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the method `f(::Any)`.

```julia
"..."
f(x, y = 1) = x + y
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to two `Method`s, namely `f(::Any)` and `f(::Any, ::Any)`.

### Macros

```julia
"..."
macro m(x) end
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the `@m(::Any)` macro definition.

```julia
"..."
:(@m)
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the macro named `@m`.

### Types

```
"..."
abstract type T1 end

"..."
mutable struct T2
    ...
end

"..."
struct T3
    ...
end
```

Adds the docstring `"..."` to types `T1`, `T2`, and `T3`.

```julia
"..."
struct T
    "x"
    x
    "y"
    y
end
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to type `T`, `"x"` to field `T.x` and `"y"` to field `T.y`. Also applicable
to `mutable struct` types.

### Modules

```julia
"..."
module M end

module M

"..."
M

end
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the `Module` `M`. Adding the docstring above the `Module` is the preferred
syntax, however both are equivalent.

```julia
"..."
baremodule M
# ...
end

baremodule M

import Base: @doc

"..."
f(x) = x

end
```

Documenting a `baremodule` by placing a docstring above the expression automatically imports
`@doc` into the module. These imports must be done manually when the module expression is not
documented. Empty `baremodule`s cannot be documented.

### Global Variables

```julia
"..."
const a = 1

"..."
b = 2

"..."
global c = 3
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the `Binding`s `a`, `b`, and `c`.

`Binding`s are used to store a reference to a particular `Symbol` in a `Module` without storing
the referenced value itself.

!!! note
    When a `const` definition is only used to define an alias of another definition, such as is the
    case with the function `div` and its alias `÷` in `Base`, do not document the alias and instead
    document the actual function.

    If the alias is documented and not the real definition then the docsystem (`?` mode) will not
    return the docstring attached to the alias when the real definition is searched for.

    For example you should write

    ```julia
    "..."
    f(x) = x + 1
    const alias = f
    ```

    rather than

    ```julia
    f(x) = x + 1
    "..."
    const alias = f
    ```

```julia
"..."
sym
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the value associated with `sym`. However, it is preferred that
`sym` is documented where it is defined.

### Multiple Objects

```julia
"..."
a, b
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to `a` and `b` each of which should be a documentable expression. This
syntax is equivalent to

```julia
"..."
a

"..."
b
```

Any number of expressions many be documented together in this way. This syntax can be useful when
two functions are related, such as non-mutating and mutating versions `f` and `f!`.

### Macro-generated code

```julia
"..."
@m expression
```

Adds docstring `"..."` to the expression generated by expanding `@m expression`. This allows
for expressions decorated with `@inline`, `@noinline`, `@generated`, or any other macro to
be documented in the same way as undecorated expressions.

Macro authors should take note that only macros that generate a single expression will automatically
support docstrings. If a macro returns a block containing multiple subexpressions then the subexpression
that should be documented must be marked using the [`@__doc__`](@ref Core.@__doc__) macro.

The [`@enum`](@ref) macro makes use of `@__doc__` to allow for documenting [`Enum`](@ref)s.
Examining its definition
should serve as an example of how to use `@__doc__` correctly.

```@docs
Core.@__doc__
```
