doc/src/manual/getting-started.md, before:

# [Getting Started](@id man-getting-started)

Julia installation is straightforward, whether using precompiled binaries or compiling from source.
Download and install Julia by following the instructions at [https://julialang.org/downloads/](https://julialang.org/downloads/).

The easiest way to learn and experiment with Julia is by starting an interactive session (also
known as a read-eval-print loop or "REPL") by double-clicking the Julia executable or running
`julia` from the command line:

```@eval
io = IOBuffer()
Base.banner(io)
banner = String(take!(io))
import Markdown
Markdown.parse("```\n\$ julia\n\n$(banner)\njulia> 1 + 2\n3\n\njulia> ans\n3\n```")
```

To exit the interactive session, type `CTRL-D` (press the Control/`^` key together with the `d` key), or type
`exit()`. When run in interactive mode, `julia` displays a banner and prompts the user for input.
Once the user has entered a complete expression, such as `1 + 2`, and hits enter, the interactive
session evaluates the expression and shows its value. If an expression is entered into an interactive
session with a trailing semicolon, its value is not shown. The variable `ans` is bound to the
value of the last evaluated expression whether it is shown or not. The `ans` variable is only
bound in interactive sessions, not when Julia code is run in other ways.

To evaluate expressions written in a source file `file.jl`, write `include("file.jl")`.

To run code in a file non-interactively, you can give it as the first argument to the `julia`
command:

```
$ julia script.jl arg1 arg2...
```

As the example implies, the following command-line arguments to `julia` are interpreted as
command-line arguments to the program `script.jl`, passed in the global constant `ARGS`. The
name of the script itself is passed in as the global `PROGRAM_FILE`. Note that `ARGS` is
also set when a Julia expression is given using the `-e` option on the command line (see the
`julia` help output below) but `PROGRAM_FILE` will be empty. For example, to just print the
arguments given to a script, you could do this:

```
$ julia -e 'println(PROGRAM_FILE); for x in ARGS; println(x); end' foo bar

foo
bar
```

Or you could put that code into a script and run it:

```
$ echo 'println(PROGRAM_FILE); for x in ARGS; println(x); end' > script.jl
$ julia script.jl foo bar
script.jl
foo
bar
```

The `--` delimiter can be used to separate command-line arguments intended for the script file from arguments intended for Julia:

```
$ julia --color=yes -O -- foo.jl arg1 arg2..
```

See also [Scripting](@ref man-scripting) for more information on writing Julia scripts.

Julia can be started in parallel mode with either the `-p` or the `--machine-file` options. `-p n`
will launch an additional `n` worker processes, while `--machine-file file` will launch a worker
for each line in file `file`. The machines defined in `file` must be accessible via a password-less
`ssh` login, with Julia installed at the same location as the current host. Each machine definition
takes the form `[count*][user@]host[:port] [bind_addr[:port]]`. `user` defaults to current user,
`port` to the standard ssh port. `count` is the number of workers to spawn on the node, and defaults
to 1. The optional `bind-to bind_addr[:port]` specifies the IP address and port that other workers
should use to connect to this worker.

If you have code that you want executed whenever Julia is run, you can put it in
`~/.julia/config/startup.jl`:

```
$ echo 'println("Greetings! 你好! 안녕하세요?")' > ~/.julia/config/startup.jl
$ julia
Greetings! 你好! 안녕하세요?

...
```

Note that although you should have a `~/.julia` directory once you've run Julia for the
first time, you may need to create the `~/.julia/config` folder and the
`~/.julia/config/startup.jl` file if you use it.

There are various ways to run Julia code and provide options, similar to those available for the
`perl` and `ruby` programs:

```
julia [switches] -- [programfile] [args...]
```

|Switch                                 |Description|
|:---                                   |:---|
|`-v`, `--version`                      |Display version information|
|`-h`, `--help`                         |Print command-line options (this message).|
|`--project[={<dir>\|@.}]`              |Set <dir> as the home project/environment. The default @. option will search through parent directories until a Project.toml or JuliaProject.toml file is found.|
|`-J`, `--sysimage <file>`              |Start up with the given system image file|
|`-H`, `--home <dir>`                   |Set location of `julia` executable|
|`--startup-file={yes\|no}`             |Load `~/.julia/config/startup.jl`|
|`--handle-signals={yes\|no}`           |Enable or disable Julia's default signal handlers|
|`--sysimage-native-code={yes\|no}`     |Use native code from system image if available|
|`--compiled-modules={yes\|no}`         |Enable or disable incremental precompilation of modules|
|`-e`, `--eval <expr>`                  |Evaluate `<expr>`|
|`-E`, `--print <expr>`                 |Evaluate `<expr>` and display the result|
|`-L`, `--load <file>`                  |Load `<file>` immediately on all processors|
|`-t`, `--threads {N\|auto`}            |Enable N threads; `auto` currently sets N to the number of local CPU threads but this might change in the future|
|`-p`, `--procs {N\|auto`}              |Integer value N launches N additional local worker processes; `auto` launches as many workers as the number of local CPU threads (logical cores)|
|`--machine-file <file>`                |Run processes on hosts listed in `<file>`|
|`-i`                                   |Interactive mode; REPL runs and `isinteractive()` is true|
|`-q`, `--quiet`                        |Quiet startup: no banner, suppress REPL warnings|
|`--banner={yes\|no\|auto}`             |Enable or disable startup banner|
|`--color={yes\|no\|auto}`              |Enable or disable color text|
|`--history-file={yes\|no}`             |Load or save history|
|`--depwarn={yes\|no\|error}`           |Enable or disable syntax and method deprecation warnings (`error` turns warnings into errors)|
|`--warn-overwrite={yes\|no}`           |Enable or disable method overwrite warnings|
|`-C`, `--cpu-target <target>`          |Limit usage of CPU features up to `<target>`; set to `help` to see the available options|
|`-O`, `--optimize={0,1,2,3}`           |Set the optimization level (default level is 2 if unspecified or 3 if used without a level)|
|`-g`, `-g <level>`                     |Enable / Set the level of debug info generation (default level is 1 if unspecified or 2 if used without a level)|
|`--inline={yes\|no}`                   |Control whether inlining is permitted, including overriding `@inline` declarations|
|`--check-bounds={yes\|no}`             |Emit bounds checks always or never (ignoring declarations)|
|`--math-mode={ieee,fast}`              |Disallow or enable unsafe floating point optimizations (overrides @fastmath declaration)|
|`--code-coverage={none\|user\|all}`    |Count executions of source lines|
|`--code-coverage`                      |equivalent to `--code-coverage=user`|
|`--track-allocation={none\|user\|all}` |Count bytes allocated by each source line|
|`--track-allocation`                   |equivalent to `--track-allocation=user`|

!!! compat "Julia 1.1"
    In Julia 1.0, the default `--project=@.` option did not search up from the root
    directory of a Git repository for the `Project.toml` file. From Julia 1.1 forward, it
    does.

## Resources

A curated list of useful learning resources to help new users get started can be found on the [learning](https://julialang.org/learning/) page of the main Julia web site.

Commit message:

Link to "noteworthy differences" early in docs (#36056)
* Link to "noteworthy differences" early in docs

From discourse: https://discourse.julialang.org/t/the-speed-of-light-is-an-integer-why-should-we-care/40108/51?u=per

It frequently happens that newcomers to Julia are tripped up by some aspect of the language, such as integer overflow, that is not present in their current favourite programming language. The list of noteworthy differences points out many of these pitfalls, so getting people to read it can reduce user frustration.

* Fix references

doc/src/manual/getting-started.md, after:

# [Getting Started](@id man-getting-started)

Julia installation is straightforward, whether using precompiled binaries or compiling from source.
Download and install Julia by following the instructions at [https://julialang.org/downloads/](https://julialang.org/downloads/).

If you are coming to Julia from one of the following languages, then you should start by reading the section on noteworthy differences from [MATLAB](@ref Noteworthy-differences-from-MATLAB), [R](@ref Noteworthy-differences-from-R), [Python](@ref Noteworthy-differences-from-Python), [C/C++](@ref Noteworthy-differences-from-C/C) or [Common Lisp](@ref Noteworthy-differences-from-Common-Lisp). This will help you avoid some common pitfalls since Julia differs from those languages in many subtle ways.

The easiest way to learn and experiment with Julia is by starting an interactive session (also
known as a read-eval-print loop or "REPL") by double-clicking the Julia executable or running
`julia` from the command line:

```@eval
io = IOBuffer()
Base.banner(io)
banner = String(take!(io))
import Markdown
Markdown.parse("```\n\$ julia\n\n$(banner)\njulia> 1 + 2\n3\n\njulia> ans\n3\n```")
```

To exit the interactive session, type `CTRL-D` (press the Control/`^` key together with the `d` key), or type
`exit()`. When run in interactive mode, `julia` displays a banner and prompts the user for input.
Once the user has entered a complete expression, such as `1 + 2`, and hits enter, the interactive
session evaluates the expression and shows its value. If an expression is entered into an interactive
session with a trailing semicolon, its value is not shown. The variable `ans` is bound to the
value of the last evaluated expression whether it is shown or not. The `ans` variable is only
bound in interactive sessions, not when Julia code is run in other ways.

To evaluate expressions written in a source file `file.jl`, write `include("file.jl")`.

To run code in a file non-interactively, you can give it as the first argument to the `julia`
command:

```
$ julia script.jl arg1 arg2...
```

As the example implies, the following command-line arguments to `julia` are interpreted as
command-line arguments to the program `script.jl`, passed in the global constant `ARGS`. The
name of the script itself is passed in as the global `PROGRAM_FILE`. Note that `ARGS` is
also set when a Julia expression is given using the `-e` option on the command line (see the
`julia` help output below) but `PROGRAM_FILE` will be empty. For example, to just print the
arguments given to a script, you could do this:

```
$ julia -e 'println(PROGRAM_FILE); for x in ARGS; println(x); end' foo bar

foo
bar
```

Or you could put that code into a script and run it:

```
$ echo 'println(PROGRAM_FILE); for x in ARGS; println(x); end' > script.jl
$ julia script.jl foo bar
script.jl
foo
bar
```

The `--` delimiter can be used to separate command-line arguments intended for the script file from arguments intended for Julia:

```
$ julia --color=yes -O -- foo.jl arg1 arg2..
```

See also [Scripting](@ref man-scripting) for more information on writing Julia scripts.

Julia can be started in parallel mode with either the `-p` or the `--machine-file` options. `-p n`
will launch an additional `n` worker processes, while `--machine-file file` will launch a worker
for each line in file `file`. The machines defined in `file` must be accessible via a password-less
`ssh` login, with Julia installed at the same location as the current host. Each machine definition
takes the form `[count*][user@]host[:port] [bind_addr[:port]]`. `user` defaults to current user,
`port` to the standard ssh port. `count` is the number of workers to spawn on the node, and defaults
to 1. The optional `bind-to bind_addr[:port]` specifies the IP address and port that other workers
should use to connect to this worker.

If you have code that you want executed whenever Julia is run, you can put it in
`~/.julia/config/startup.jl`:

```
$ echo 'println("Greetings! 你好! 안녕하세요?")' > ~/.julia/config/startup.jl
$ julia
Greetings! 你好! 안녕하세요?

...
```

Note that although you should have a `~/.julia` directory once you've run Julia for the
first time, you may need to create the `~/.julia/config` folder and the
`~/.julia/config/startup.jl` file if you use it.

There are various ways to run Julia code and provide options, similar to those available for the
`perl` and `ruby` programs:

```
julia [switches] -- [programfile] [args...]
```

|Switch                                 |Description|
|:---                                   |:---|
|`-v`, `--version`                      |Display version information|
|`-h`, `--help`                         |Print command-line options (this message).|
|`--project[={<dir>\|@.}]`              |Set <dir> as the home project/environment. The default @. option will search through parent directories until a Project.toml or JuliaProject.toml file is found.|
|`-J`, `--sysimage <file>`              |Start up with the given system image file|
|`-H`, `--home <dir>`                   |Set location of `julia` executable|
|`--startup-file={yes\|no}`             |Load `~/.julia/config/startup.jl`|
|`--handle-signals={yes\|no}`           |Enable or disable Julia's default signal handlers|
|`--sysimage-native-code={yes\|no}`     |Use native code from system image if available|
|`--compiled-modules={yes\|no}`         |Enable or disable incremental precompilation of modules|
|`-e`, `--eval <expr>`                  |Evaluate `<expr>`|
|`-E`, `--print <expr>`                 |Evaluate `<expr>` and display the result|
|`-L`, `--load <file>`                  |Load `<file>` immediately on all processors|
|`-t`, `--threads {N\|auto`}            |Enable N threads; `auto` currently sets N to the number of local CPU threads but this might change in the future|
|`-p`, `--procs {N\|auto`}              |Integer value N launches N additional local worker processes; `auto` launches as many workers as the number of local CPU threads (logical cores)|
|`--machine-file <file>`                |Run processes on hosts listed in `<file>`|
|`-i`                                   |Interactive mode; REPL runs and `isinteractive()` is true|
|`-q`, `--quiet`                        |Quiet startup: no banner, suppress REPL warnings|
|`--banner={yes\|no\|auto}`             |Enable or disable startup banner|
|`--color={yes\|no\|auto}`              |Enable or disable color text|
|`--history-file={yes\|no}`             |Load or save history|
|`--depwarn={yes\|no\|error}`           |Enable or disable syntax and method deprecation warnings (`error` turns warnings into errors)|
|`--warn-overwrite={yes\|no}`           |Enable or disable method overwrite warnings|
|`-C`, `--cpu-target <target>`          |Limit usage of CPU features up to `<target>`; set to `help` to see the available options|
|`-O`, `--optimize={0,1,2,3}`           |Set the optimization level (default level is 2 if unspecified or 3 if used without a level)|
|`-g`, `-g <level>`                     |Enable / Set the level of debug info generation (default level is 1 if unspecified or 2 if used without a level)|
|`--inline={yes\|no}`                   |Control whether inlining is permitted, including overriding `@inline` declarations|
|`--check-bounds={yes\|no}`             |Emit bounds checks always or never (ignoring declarations)|
|`--math-mode={ieee,fast}`              |Disallow or enable unsafe floating point optimizations (overrides @fastmath declaration)|
|`--code-coverage={none\|user\|all}`    |Count executions of source lines|
|`--code-coverage`                      |equivalent to `--code-coverage=user`|
|`--track-allocation={none\|user\|all}` |Count bytes allocated by each source line|
|`--track-allocation`                   |equivalent to `--track-allocation=user`|

!!! compat "Julia 1.1"
    In Julia 1.0, the default `--project=@.` option did not search up from the root
    directory of a Git repository for the `Project.toml` file. From Julia 1.1 forward, it
    does.

## Resources

A curated list of useful learning resources to help new users get started can be found on the [learning](https://julialang.org/learning/) page of the main Julia web site.
