doc/src/manual/multi-threading.md, before:

# [Multi-Threading](@id man-multithreading)

## Starting Julia with multiple threads

By default, Julia starts up with a single thread of execution. This can be verified by using the
command [`Threads.nthreads()`](@ref):

```julia-repl
julia> Threads.nthreads()
1
```

The number of execution threads is controlled either by using the
`-t`/`--threads` command line argument or by using the
[`JULIA_NUM_THREADS`](@ref JULIA_NUM_THREADS) environment variable. When both are
specified, then `-t`/`--threads` takes precedence.

!!! compat "Julia 1.5"
    The `-t`/`--threads` command line argument requires at least Julia 1.5.
    In older versions you must use the environment variable instead.

Lets start Julia with 4 threads:

```bash
$ julia --threads 4
```

Let's verify there are 4 threads at our disposal.

```julia-repl
julia> Threads.nthreads()
4
```

But we are currently on the master thread. To check, we use the function [`Threads.threadid`](@ref)

```julia-repl
julia> Threads.threadid()
1
```

!!! note
    If you prefer to use the environment variable you can set it as follows in
    Bash (Linux/macOS):
    ```bash
    export JULIA_NUM_THREADS=4
    ```
    C shell on Linux/macOS, CMD on Windows:
    ```bash
    set JULIA_NUM_THREADS=4
    ```
    Powershell on Windows:
    ```powershell
    $env:JULIA_NUM_THREADS=4
    ```
    Note that this must be done *before* starting Julia.

!!! note
    The number of threads specified with `-t`/`--threads` is propagated to worker processes
    that are spawned using the `-p`/`--procs` or `--machine-file` command line options.
    For example, `julia -p2 -t2` spawns 1 main process with 2 worker processes, and all
    three processes have 2 threads enabled. For more fine grained control over worker
    threads use [`addprocs`](@ref) and pass `-t`/`--threads` as `exeflags`.

## Data-race freedom

You are entirely responsible for ensuring that your program is data-race free,
and nothing promised here can be assumed if you do not observe that
requirement. The observed results may be highly unintuitive.

The best way to ensure this is to acquire a lock around any access to data that
can be observed from multiple threads. For example, in most cases you should
use the following code pattern:

```julia-repl
julia> lock(lk) do
           use(a)
       end

julia> begin
           lock(lk)
           try
               use(a)
           finally
               unlock(lk)
           end
       end
```
where `lk` is a lock (e.g. `ReentrantLock()`) and `a` data.

Additionally, Julia is not memory safe in the presence of a data race. Be very
careful about reading a global variable (or closure variable) if another thread
might write to it! Instead, always use the lock pattern above when changing any
data (such as assigning to a global) visible to multiple threads.

```julia
Thread 1:
global b = false
global a = rand()
global b = true

Thread 2:
while !b; end
bad(a) # it is NOT safe to access `a` here!

Thread 3:
while !@isdefined(a); end
use(a) # it is NOT safe to access `a` here
```

## The `@threads` Macro

Let's work a simple example using our native threads. Let us create an array of zeros:

```jldoctest
julia> a = zeros(10)
10-element Vector{Float64}:
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
```

Let us operate on this array simultaneously using 4 threads. We'll have each thread write its
thread ID into each location.

Julia supports parallel loops using the [`Threads.@threads`](@ref) macro. This macro is affixed
in front of a `for` loop to indicate to Julia that the loop is a multi-threaded region:

```julia-repl
julia> Threads.@threads for i = 1:10
           a[i] = Threads.threadid()
       end
```

The iteration space is split among the threads, after which each thread writes its thread ID
to its assigned locations:

```julia-repl
julia> a
10-element Array{Float64,1}:
 1.0
 1.0
 1.0
 2.0
 2.0
 2.0
 3.0
 3.0
 4.0
 4.0
```

Note that [`Threads.@threads`](@ref) does not have an optional reduction parameter like [`@distributed`](@ref).

## Atomic Operations

Julia supports accessing and modifying values *atomically*, that is, in a thread-safe way to avoid
[race conditions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition). A value (which must be of a primitive
type) can be wrapped as [`Threads.Atomic`](@ref) to indicate it must be accessed in this way.
Here we can see an example:

```julia-repl
julia> i = Threads.Atomic{Int}(0);

julia> ids = zeros(4);

julia> old_is = zeros(4);

julia> Threads.@threads for id in 1:4
           old_is[id] = Threads.atomic_add!(i, id)
           ids[id] = id
       end

julia> old_is
4-element Array{Float64,1}:
 0.0
 1.0
 7.0
 3.0

julia> ids
4-element Array{Float64,1}:
 1.0
 2.0
 3.0
 4.0
```

Had we tried to do the addition without the atomic tag, we might have gotten the
wrong answer due to a race condition. An example of what would happen if we didn't
avoid the race:

```julia-repl
julia> using Base.Threads

julia> nthreads()
4

julia> acc = Ref(0)
Base.RefValue{Int64}(0)

julia> @threads for i in 1:1000
          acc[] += 1
       end

julia> acc[]
926

julia> acc = Atomic{Int64}(0)
Atomic{Int64}(0)

julia> @threads for i in 1:1000
          atomic_add!(acc, 1)
       end

julia> acc[]
1000
```

!!! note
    Not *all* primitive types can be wrapped in an `Atomic` tag. Supported types
    are `Int8`, `Int16`, `Int32`, `Int64`, `Int128`, `UInt8`, `UInt16`, `UInt32`,
    `UInt64`, `UInt128`, `Float16`, `Float32`, and `Float64`. Additionally,
    `Int128` and `UInt128` are not supported on AAarch32 and ppc64le.

## Side effects and mutable function arguments

When using multi-threading we have to be careful when using functions that are not
[pure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function) as we might get a wrong answer.
For instance functions that have a
[name ending with `!`](@ref bang-convention)
by convention modify their arguments and thus are not pure.

## @threadcall

External libraries, such as those called via [`ccall`](@ref), pose a problem for
Julia's task-based I/O mechanism.
If a C library performs a blocking operation, that prevents the Julia scheduler
from executing any other tasks until the call returns.
(Exceptions are calls into custom C code that call back into Julia, which may then
yield, or C code that calls `jl_yield()`, the C equivalent of [`yield`](@ref).)

The [`@threadcall`](@ref) macro provides a way to avoid stalling execution in such
a scenario.
It schedules a C function for execution in a separate thread. A threadpool with a
default size of 4 is used for this. The size of the threadpool is controlled via environment variable
`UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE`. While waiting for a free thread, and during function execution once a thread
is available, the requesting task (on the main Julia event loop) yields to other tasks. Note that
`@threadcall` does not return until the execution is complete. From a user point of view, it is
therefore a blocking call like other Julia APIs.

It is very important that the called function does not call back into Julia, as it will segfault.

`@threadcall` may be removed/changed in future versions of Julia.

## Caveats

At this time, most operations in the Julia runtime and standard libraries
can be used in a thread-safe manner, if the user code is data-race free.
However, in some areas work on stabilizing thread support is ongoing.
Multi-threaded programming has many inherent difficulties, and if a program
using threads exhibits unusual or undesirable behavior (e.g. crashes or
mysterious results), thread interactions should typically be suspected first.

There are a few specific limitations and warnings to be aware of when using
threads in Julia:

  * Base collection types require manual locking if used simultaneously by
    multiple threads where at least one thread modifies the collection
    (common examples include `push!` on arrays, or inserting
    items into a `Dict`).
  * After a task starts running on a certain thread (e.g. via `@spawn`), it
    will always be restarted on the same thread after blocking. In the future
    this limitation will be removed, and tasks will migrate between threads.
  * `@threads` currently uses a static schedule, using all threads and assigning
    equal iteration counts to each. In the future the default schedule is likely
    to change to be dynamic.
  * The schedule used by `@spawn` is nondeterministic and should not be relied on.
  * Compute-bound, non-memory-allocating tasks can prevent garbage collection from
    running in other threads that are allocating memory. In these cases it may
    be necessary to insert a manual call to `GC.safepoint()` to allow GC to run.
    This limitation will be removed in the future.
  * Avoid running top-level operations, e.g. `include`, or `eval` of type,
    method, and module definitions in parallel.
  * Be aware that finalizers registered by a library may break if threads are enabled.
    This may require some transitional work across the ecosystem before threading
    can be widely adopted with confidence. See the next section for further details.

## Safe use of Finalizers

Because finalizers can interrupt any code, they must be very careful in how
they interact with any global state. Unfortunately, the main reason that
finalizers are used is to update global state (a pure function is generally
rather pointless as a finalizer). This leads us to a bit of a conundrum.
There are a few approaches to dealing with this problem:

1. When single-threaded, code could call the internal `jl_gc_enable_finalizers`
   C function to prevent finalizers from being scheduled
   inside a critical region. Internally, this is used inside some functions (such
   as our C locks) to prevent recursion when doing certain operations (incremental
   package loading, codegen, etc.). The combination of a lock and this flag
   can be used to make finalizers safe.

2. A second strategy, employed by Base in a couple places, is to explicitly
   delay a finalizer until it may be able to acquire its lock non-recursively.
   The following example demonstrates how this strategy could be applied to
   `Distributed.finalize_ref`:

   ```
   function finalize_ref(r::AbstractRemoteRef)
       if r.where > 0 # Check if the finalizer is already run
           if islocked(client_refs) || !trylock(client_refs)
               # delay finalizer for later if we aren't free to acquire the lock
               finalizer(finalize_ref, r)
               return nothing
           end
           try # `lock` should always be followed by `try`
               if r.where > 0 # Must check again here
                   # Do actual cleanup here
                   r.where = 0
               end
           finally
               unlock(client_refs)
           end
       end
       nothing
   end
   ```

3. A related third strategy is to use a yield-free queue. We don't currently
   have a lock-free queue implemented in Base, but
   `Base.InvasiveLinkedListSynchronized{T}` is suitable. This can frequently be a
   good strategy to use for code with event loops. For example, this strategy is
   employed by `Gtk.jl` to manage lifetime ref-counting. In this approach, we
   don't do any explicit work inside the `finalizer`, and instead add it to a queue
   to run at a safer time. In fact, Julia's task scheduler already uses this, so
   defining the finalizer as `x -> @spawn do_cleanup(x)` is one example of this
   approach. Note however that this doesn't control which thread `do_cleanup`
   runs on, so `do_cleanup` would still need to acquire a lock. That
   doesn't need to be true if you implement your own queue, as you can explicitly
   only drain that queue from your thread.

Commit message:

doc multi-threading: link to 2019's blog post (#36561)

doc/src/manual/multi-threading.md, after:

# [Multi-Threading](@id man-multithreading)

Visit this [blog post](https://julialang.org/blog/2019/07/multithreading/) for a presentation
of Julia multi-threading features.

## Starting Julia with multiple threads

By default, Julia starts up with a single thread of execution. This can be verified by using the
command [`Threads.nthreads()`](@ref):

```julia-repl
julia> Threads.nthreads()
1
```

The number of execution threads is controlled either by using the
`-t`/`--threads` command line argument or by using the
[`JULIA_NUM_THREADS`](@ref JULIA_NUM_THREADS) environment variable. When both are
specified, then `-t`/`--threads` takes precedence.

!!! compat "Julia 1.5"
    The `-t`/`--threads` command line argument requires at least Julia 1.5.
    In older versions you must use the environment variable instead.

Lets start Julia with 4 threads:

```bash
$ julia --threads 4
```

Let's verify there are 4 threads at our disposal.

```julia-repl
julia> Threads.nthreads()
4
```

But we are currently on the master thread. To check, we use the function [`Threads.threadid`](@ref)

```julia-repl
julia> Threads.threadid()
1
```

!!! note
    If you prefer to use the environment variable you can set it as follows in
    Bash (Linux/macOS):
    ```bash
    export JULIA_NUM_THREADS=4
    ```
    C shell on Linux/macOS, CMD on Windows:
    ```bash
    set JULIA_NUM_THREADS=4
    ```
    Powershell on Windows:
    ```powershell
    $env:JULIA_NUM_THREADS=4
    ```
    Note that this must be done *before* starting Julia.

!!! note
    The number of threads specified with `-t`/`--threads` is propagated to worker processes
    that are spawned using the `-p`/`--procs` or `--machine-file` command line options.
    For example, `julia -p2 -t2` spawns 1 main process with 2 worker processes, and all
    three processes have 2 threads enabled. For more fine grained control over worker
    threads use [`addprocs`](@ref) and pass `-t`/`--threads` as `exeflags`.

## Data-race freedom

You are entirely responsible for ensuring that your program is data-race free,
and nothing promised here can be assumed if you do not observe that
requirement. The observed results may be highly unintuitive.

The best way to ensure this is to acquire a lock around any access to data that
can be observed from multiple threads. For example, in most cases you should
use the following code pattern:

```julia-repl
julia> lock(lk) do
           use(a)
       end

julia> begin
           lock(lk)
           try
               use(a)
           finally
               unlock(lk)
           end
       end
```
where `lk` is a lock (e.g. `ReentrantLock()`) and `a` data.

Additionally, Julia is not memory safe in the presence of a data race. Be very
careful about reading a global variable (or closure variable) if another thread
might write to it! Instead, always use the lock pattern above when changing any
data (such as assigning to a global) visible to multiple threads.

```julia
Thread 1:
global b = false
global a = rand()
global b = true

Thread 2:
while !b; end
bad(a) # it is NOT safe to access `a` here!

Thread 3:
while !@isdefined(a); end
use(a) # it is NOT safe to access `a` here
```

## The `@threads` Macro

Let's work a simple example using our native threads. Let us create an array of zeros:

```jldoctest
julia> a = zeros(10)
10-element Vector{Float64}:
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
 0.0
```

Let us operate on this array simultaneously using 4 threads. We'll have each thread write its
thread ID into each location.

Julia supports parallel loops using the [`Threads.@threads`](@ref) macro. This macro is affixed
in front of a `for` loop to indicate to Julia that the loop is a multi-threaded region:

```julia-repl
julia> Threads.@threads for i = 1:10
           a[i] = Threads.threadid()
       end
```

The iteration space is split among the threads, after which each thread writes its thread ID
to its assigned locations:

```julia-repl
julia> a
10-element Array{Float64,1}:
 1.0
 1.0
 1.0
 2.0
 2.0
 2.0
 3.0
 3.0
 4.0
 4.0
```

Note that [`Threads.@threads`](@ref) does not have an optional reduction parameter like [`@distributed`](@ref).

## Atomic Operations

Julia supports accessing and modifying values *atomically*, that is, in a thread-safe way to avoid
[race conditions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition). A value (which must be of a primitive
type) can be wrapped as [`Threads.Atomic`](@ref) to indicate it must be accessed in this way.
Here we can see an example:

```julia-repl
julia> i = Threads.Atomic{Int}(0);

julia> ids = zeros(4);

julia> old_is = zeros(4);

julia> Threads.@threads for id in 1:4
           old_is[id] = Threads.atomic_add!(i, id)
           ids[id] = id
       end

julia> old_is
4-element Array{Float64,1}:
 0.0
 1.0
 7.0
 3.0

julia> ids
4-element Array{Float64,1}:
 1.0
 2.0
 3.0
 4.0
```

Had we tried to do the addition without the atomic tag, we might have gotten the
wrong answer due to a race condition. An example of what would happen if we didn't
avoid the race:

```julia-repl
julia> using Base.Threads

julia> nthreads()
4

julia> acc = Ref(0)
Base.RefValue{Int64}(0)

julia> @threads for i in 1:1000
          acc[] += 1
       end

julia> acc[]
926

julia> acc = Atomic{Int64}(0)
Atomic{Int64}(0)

julia> @threads for i in 1:1000
          atomic_add!(acc, 1)
       end

julia> acc[]
1000
```

!!! note
    Not *all* primitive types can be wrapped in an `Atomic` tag. Supported types
    are `Int8`, `Int16`, `Int32`, `Int64`, `Int128`, `UInt8`, `UInt16`, `UInt32`,
    `UInt64`, `UInt128`, `Float16`, `Float32`, and `Float64`. Additionally,
    `Int128` and `UInt128` are not supported on AAarch32 and ppc64le.

## Side effects and mutable function arguments

When using multi-threading we have to be careful when using functions that are not
[pure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function) as we might get a wrong answer.
For instance functions that have a
[name ending with `!`](@ref bang-convention)
by convention modify their arguments and thus are not pure.

## @threadcall

External libraries, such as those called via [`ccall`](@ref), pose a problem for
Julia's task-based I/O mechanism.
If a C library performs a blocking operation, that prevents the Julia scheduler
from executing any other tasks until the call returns.
(Exceptions are calls into custom C code that call back into Julia, which may then
yield, or C code that calls `jl_yield()`, the C equivalent of [`yield`](@ref).)

The [`@threadcall`](@ref) macro provides a way to avoid stalling execution in such
a scenario.
It schedules a C function for execution in a separate thread. A threadpool with a
default size of 4 is used for this. The size of the threadpool is controlled via environment variable
`UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE`. While waiting for a free thread, and during function execution once a thread
is available, the requesting task (on the main Julia event loop) yields to other tasks. Note that
`@threadcall` does not return until the execution is complete. From a user point of view, it is
therefore a blocking call like other Julia APIs.

It is very important that the called function does not call back into Julia, as it will segfault.

`@threadcall` may be removed/changed in future versions of Julia.

## Caveats

At this time, most operations in the Julia runtime and standard libraries
can be used in a thread-safe manner, if the user code is data-race free.
However, in some areas work on stabilizing thread support is ongoing.
Multi-threaded programming has many inherent difficulties, and if a program
using threads exhibits unusual or undesirable behavior (e.g. crashes or
mysterious results), thread interactions should typically be suspected first.

There are a few specific limitations and warnings to be aware of when using
threads in Julia:

  * Base collection types require manual locking if used simultaneously by
    multiple threads where at least one thread modifies the collection
    (common examples include `push!` on arrays, or inserting
    items into a `Dict`).
  * After a task starts running on a certain thread (e.g. via `@spawn`), it
    will always be restarted on the same thread after blocking. In the future
    this limitation will be removed, and tasks will migrate between threads.
  * `@threads` currently uses a static schedule, using all threads and assigning
    equal iteration counts to each. In the future the default schedule is likely
    to change to be dynamic.
  * The schedule used by `@spawn` is nondeterministic and should not be relied on.
  * Compute-bound, non-memory-allocating tasks can prevent garbage collection from
    running in other threads that are allocating memory. In these cases it may
    be necessary to insert a manual call to `GC.safepoint()` to allow GC to run.
    This limitation will be removed in the future.
  * Avoid running top-level operations, e.g. `include`, or `eval` of type,
    method, and module definitions in parallel.
  * Be aware that finalizers registered by a library may break if threads are enabled.
    This may require some transitional work across the ecosystem before threading
    can be widely adopted with confidence. See the next section for further details.

## Safe use of Finalizers

Because finalizers can interrupt any code, they must be very careful in how
they interact with any global state. Unfortunately, the main reason that
finalizers are used is to update global state (a pure function is generally
rather pointless as a finalizer). This leads us to a bit of a conundrum.
There are a few approaches to dealing with this problem:

1. When single-threaded, code could call the internal `jl_gc_enable_finalizers`
   C function to prevent finalizers from being scheduled
   inside a critical region. Internally, this is used inside some functions (such
   as our C locks) to prevent recursion when doing certain operations (incremental
   package loading, codegen, etc.). The combination of a lock and this flag
   can be used to make finalizers safe.

2. A second strategy, employed by Base in a couple places, is to explicitly
   delay a finalizer until it may be able to acquire its lock non-recursively.
   The following example demonstrates how this strategy could be applied to
   `Distributed.finalize_ref`:

   ```
   function finalize_ref(r::AbstractRemoteRef)
       if r.where > 0 # Check if the finalizer is already run
           if islocked(client_refs) || !trylock(client_refs)
               # delay finalizer for later if we aren't free to acquire the lock
               finalizer(finalize_ref, r)
               return nothing
           end
           try # `lock` should always be followed by `try`
               if r.where > 0 # Must check again here
                   # Do actual cleanup here
                   r.where = 0
               end
           finally
               unlock(client_refs)
           end
       end
       nothing
   end
   ```

3. A related third strategy is to use a yield-free queue. We don't currently
   have a lock-free queue implemented in Base, but
   `Base.InvasiveLinkedListSynchronized{T}` is suitable. This can frequently be a
   good strategy to use for code with event loops. For example, this strategy is
   employed by `Gtk.jl` to manage lifetime ref-counting. In this approach, we
   don't do any explicit work inside the `finalizer`, and instead add it to a queue
   to run at a safer time. In fact, Julia's task scheduler already uses this, so
   defining the finalizer as `x -> @spawn do_cleanup(x)` is one example of this
   approach. Note however that this doesn't control which thread `do_cleanup`
   runs on, so `do_cleanup` would still need to acquire a lock. That
   doesn't need to be true if you implement your own queue, as you can explicitly
   only drain that queue from your thread.
