doc/src/manual/profile.md, before:

# Profiling

The `Profile` module provides tools to help developers improve the performance of their
code. When used, it takes measurements on running code, and produces output that helps you understand
how much time is spent on individual line(s). The most common usage is to identify "bottlenecks"
as targets for optimization.

`Profile` implements what is known as a "sampling" or [statistical profiler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Profiling_(computer_programming)).
 It works by periodically taking a backtrace during the execution of any task. Each backtrace
captures the currently-running function and line number, plus the complete chain of function calls
that led to this line, and hence is a "snapshot" of the current state of execution.

If much of your run time is spent executing a particular line of code, this line will show up
frequently in the set of all backtraces. In other words, the "cost" of a given line--or really,
the cost of the sequence of function calls up to and including this line--is proportional to how
often it appears in the set of all backtraces.

A sampling profiler does not provide complete line-by-line coverage, because the backtraces occur
at intervals (by default, 1 ms on Unix systems and 10 ms on Windows, although the actual scheduling
is subject to operating system load). Moreover, as discussed further below, because samples are
collected at a sparse subset of all execution points, the data collected by a sampling profiler
is subject to statistical noise.

Despite these limitations, sampling profilers have substantial strengths:

  * You do not have to make any modifications to your code to take timing measurements.
  * It can profile into Julia's core code and even (optionally) into C and Fortran libraries.
  * By running "infrequently" there is very little performance overhead; while profiling, your code
    can run at nearly native speed.

For these reasons, it's recommended that you try using the built-in sampling profiler before considering
any alternatives.

## Basic usage

Let's work with a simple test case:

```julia-repl
julia> function myfunc()
           A = rand(200, 200, 400)
           maximum(A)
       end
```

It's a good idea to first run the code you intend to profile at least once (unless you want to
profile Julia's JIT-compiler):

```julia-repl
julia> myfunc() # run once to force compilation
```

Now we're ready to profile this function:

```julia-repl
julia> using Profile

julia> @profile myfunc()
```

To see the profiling results, there is a [graphical browser](https://github.com/timholy/ProfileView.jl)
available, but here we'll use the text-based display that comes with the standard library:

```julia-repl
julia> Profile.print()
80 ./event.jl:73; (::Base.REPL.##1#2{Base.REPL.REPLBackend})()
 80 ./REPL.jl:97; macro expansion
  80 ./REPL.jl:66; eval_user_input(::Any, ::Base.REPL.REPLBackend)
   80 ./boot.jl:235; eval(::Module, ::Any)
    80 ./<missing>:?; anonymous
     80 ./profile.jl:23; macro expansion
      52 ./REPL[1]:2; myfunc()
       38 ./random.jl:431; rand!(::MersenneTwister, ::Array{Float64,3}, ::Int64, ::Type{B...
        38 ./dSFMT.jl:84; dsfmt_fill_array_close_open!(::Base.dSFMT.DSFMT_state, ::Ptr{F...
       14 ./random.jl:278; rand
        14 ./random.jl:277; rand
         14 ./random.jl:366; rand
          14 ./random.jl:369; rand
      28 ./REPL[1]:3; myfunc()
       28 ./reduce.jl:270; _mapreduce(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, ::IndexLinear,...
        3  ./reduce.jl:426; mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, ::Array{F...
        25 ./reduce.jl:428; mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, ::Array{F...
```

Each line of this display represents a particular spot (line number) in the code. Indentation
is used to indicate the nested sequence of function calls, with more-indented lines being deeper
in the sequence of calls. In each line, the first "field" is the number of backtraces
(samples) taken *at this line or in any functions executed by this line*.
The second field is the file name and line number and the third field is the function name.
Note that the specific line numbers may change as Julia's
code changes; if you want to follow along, it's best to run this example yourself.

In this example, we can see that the top level function called is in the file `event.jl`. This is the
function that runs the REPL when you launch Julia. If you examine line 97 of `REPL.jl`,
you'll see this is where the function `eval_user_input()` is called. This is the function that evaluates
what you type at the REPL, and since we're working interactively these functions were invoked
when we entered `@profile myfunc()`. The next line reflects actions taken in the [`@profile`](@ref)
macro.

The first line shows that 80 backtraces were taken at line 73 of `event.jl`, but it's not that
this line was "expensive" on its own: the third line reveals that all 80 of these backtraces
were actually triggered inside its call to `eval_user_input`, and so on. To find out which operations
are actually taking the time, we need to look deeper in the call chain.

The first "important" line in this output is this one:

```
52 ./REPL[1]:2; myfunc()
```

`REPL` refers to the fact that we defined `myfunc` in the REPL, rather than putting it in a file;
if we had used a file, this would show the file name. The `[1]` shows that the function `myfunc`
was the first expression evaluated in this REPL session. Line 2 of `myfunc()` contains the call to
`rand`, and there were 52 (out of 80) backtraces that occurred at this line. Below that, you can
see a call to `dsfmt_fill_array_close_open!` inside `dSFMT.jl`.

A little further down, you see:

```
28 ./REPL[1]:3; myfunc()
```

Line 3 of `myfunc` contains the call to `maximum`, and there were 28 (out of 80) backtraces taken
here. Below that, you can see the specific places in `base/reduce.jl` that carry out the time-consuming
operations in the `maximum` function for this type of input data.

Overall, we can tentatively conclude that generating the random numbers is approximately twice as expensive
as finding the maximum element. We could increase our confidence in this result by
collecting more samples:

```julia-repl
julia> @profile (for i = 1:100; myfunc(); end)

julia> Profile.print()
[....]
 3821 ./REPL[1]:2; myfunc()
  3511 ./random.jl:431; rand!(::MersenneTwister, ::Array{Float64,3}, ::Int64, ::Type...
   3511 ./dSFMT.jl:84; dsfmt_fill_array_close_open!(::Base.dSFMT.DSFMT_state, ::Ptr...
  310  ./random.jl:278; rand
   [....]
 2893 ./REPL[1]:3; myfunc()
  2893 ./reduce.jl:270; _mapreduce(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, ::IndexLinea...
   [....]
```

In general, if you have `N` samples collected at a line, you can expect an uncertainty on the
order of `sqrt(N)` (barring other sources of noise, like how busy the computer is with other tasks).
The major exception to this rule is garbage collection, which runs infrequently but tends to be
quite expensive. (Since Julia's garbage collector is written in C, such events can be detected
using the `C=true` output mode described below, or by using [ProfileView.jl](https://github.com/timholy/ProfileView.jl).)

This illustrates the default "tree" dump; an alternative is the "flat" dump, which accumulates
counts independent of their nesting:

```julia-repl
julia> Profile.print(format=:flat)
 Count File          Line Function
  6714 ./<missing>     -1 anonymous
  6714 ./REPL.jl       66 eval_user_input(::Any, ::Base.REPL.REPLBackend)
  6714 ./REPL.jl       97 macro expansion
  3821 ./REPL[1]        2 myfunc()
  2893 ./REPL[1]        3 myfunc()
  6714 ./REPL[7]        1 macro expansion
  6714 ./boot.jl      235 eval(::Module, ::Any)
  3511 ./dSFMT.jl      84 dsfmt_fill_array_close_open!(::Base.dSFMT.DSFMT_s...
  6714 ./event.jl      73 (::Base.REPL.##1#2{Base.REPL.REPLBackend})()
  6714 ./profile.jl    23 macro expansion
  3511 ./random.jl    431 rand!(::MersenneTwister, ::Array{Float64,3}, ::In...
   310 ./random.jl    277 rand
   310 ./random.jl    278 rand
   310 ./random.jl    366 rand
   310 ./random.jl    369 rand
  2893 ./reduce.jl    270 _mapreduce(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, :...
     5 ./reduce.jl    420 mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarma...
   253 ./reduce.jl    426 mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarma...
  2592 ./reduce.jl    428 mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarma...
    43 ./reduce.jl    429 mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarma...
```

If your code has recursion, one potentially-confusing point is that a line in a "child" function
can accumulate more counts than there are total backtraces. Consider the following function definitions:

```julia
dumbsum(n::Integer) = n == 1 ? 1 : 1 + dumbsum(n-1)
dumbsum3() = dumbsum(3)
```

If you were to profile `dumbsum3`, and a backtrace was taken while it was executing `dumbsum(1)`,
the backtrace would look like this:

```julia
dumbsum3
    dumbsum(3)
        dumbsum(2)
            dumbsum(1)
```

Consequently, this child function gets 3 counts, even though the parent only gets one. The "tree"
representation makes this much clearer, and for this reason (among others) is probably the most
useful way to view the results.

## Accumulation and clearing

Results from [`@profile`](@ref) accumulate in a buffer; if you run multiple pieces of code under
[`@profile`](@ref), then [`Profile.print()`](@ref) will show you the combined results. This can
be very useful, but sometimes you want to start fresh; you can do so with [`Profile.clear()`](@ref).

## Options for controlling the display of profile results

[`Profile.print`](@ref) has more options than we've described so far. Let's see the full declaration:

```julia
function print(io::IO = stdout, data = fetch(); kwargs...)
```

Let's first discuss the two positional arguments, and later the keyword arguments:

  * `io` -- Allows you to save the results to a buffer, e.g. a file, but the default is to print to `stdout`
    (the console).
  * `data` -- Contains the data you want to analyze; by default that is obtained from [`Profile.fetch()`](@ref),
    which pulls out the backtraces from a pre-allocated buffer. For example, if you want to profile
    the profiler, you could say:

    ```julia
    data = copy(Profile.fetch())
    Profile.clear()
    @profile Profile.print(stdout, data) # Prints the previous results
    Profile.print()                      # Prints results from Profile.print()
    ```

The keyword arguments can be any combination of:

  * `format` -- Introduced above, determines whether backtraces are printed
     with (default, `:tree`) or without (`:flat`) indentation indicating tree
     structure.
  * `C` -- If `true`, backtraces from C and Fortran code are shown (normally they are excluded). Try running the introductory
    example with `Profile.print(C = true)`. This can be extremely helpful in deciding whether it's
    Julia code or C code that is causing a bottleneck; setting `C = true` also improves the interpretability
    of the nesting, at the cost of longer profile dumps.
  * `combine` -- Some lines of code contain multiple operations; for example, `s += A[i]` contains both an array
    reference (`A[i]`) and a sum operation. These correspond to different lines in the generated
    machine code, and hence there may be two or more different addresses captured during backtraces
    on this line. `combine = true` lumps them together, and is probably what you typically want, but
    you can generate an output separately for each unique instruction pointer with `combine = false`.
  * `maxdepth` -- Limits frames at a depth higher than `maxdepth` in the `:tree` format.
  * `sortedby` -- Controls the order in `:flat` format. `:filefuncline` (default) sorts by the source
    line, whereas `:count` sorts in order of number of collected samples.
  * `noisefloor` -- Limits frames that are below the heuristic noise floor of the sample (only applies to format `:tree`).
    A suggested value to try for this is 2.0 (the default is 0). This parameter hides samples for which `n <= noisefloor * √N`,
    where `n` is the number of samples on this line, and `N` is the number of samples for the callee.
  * `mincount` -- Limits frames with less than `mincount` occurrences.

File/function names are sometimes truncated (with `...`), and indentation is truncated with a
`+n` at the beginning, where `n` is the number of extra spaces that would have been inserted,
had there been room. If you want a complete profile of deeply-nested code, often a good idea is
to save to a file using a wide `displaysize` in an [`IOContext`](@ref):

```julia
open("/tmp/prof.txt", "w") do s
    Profile.print(IOContext(s, :displaysize => (24, 500)))
end
```

## Configuration

[`@profile`](@ref) just accumulates backtraces, and the analysis happens when you call [`Profile.print()`](@ref).
For a long-running computation, it's entirely possible that the pre-allocated buffer for storing
backtraces will be filled. If that happens, the backtraces stop but your computation continues.
As a consequence, you may miss some important profiling data (you will get a warning when that
happens).

You can obtain and configure the relevant parameters this way:

```julia
Profile.init() # returns the current settings
Profile.init(n = 10^7, delay = 0.01)
```

`n` is the total number of instruction pointers you can store, with a default value of `10^6`.
If your typical backtrace is 20 instruction pointers, then you can collect 50000 backtraces, which
suggests a statistical uncertainty of less than 1%. This may be good enough for most applications.

Consequently, you are more likely to need to modify `delay`, expressed in seconds, which sets
the amount of time that Julia gets between snapshots to perform the requested computations. A
very long-running job might not need frequent backtraces. The default setting is `delay = 0.001`.
Of course, you can decrease the delay as well as increase it; however, the overhead of profiling
grows once the delay becomes similar to the amount of time needed to take a backtrace (~30 microseconds
on the author's laptop).

# Memory allocation analysis

One of the most common techniques to improve performance is to reduce memory allocation. The
total amount of allocation can be measured with [`@time`](@ref) and [`@allocated`](@ref), and
specific lines triggering allocation can often be inferred from profiling via the cost of garbage
collection that these lines incur. However, sometimes it is more efficient to directly measure
the amount of memory allocated by each line of code.

To measure allocation line-by-line, start Julia with the `--track-allocation=<setting>` command-line
option, for which you can choose `none` (the default, do not measure allocation), `user` (measure
memory allocation everywhere except Julia's core code), or `all` (measure memory allocation at
each line of Julia code). Allocation gets measured for each line of compiled code. When you quit
Julia, the cumulative results are written to text files with `.mem` appended after the file name,
residing in the same directory as the source file. Each line lists the total number of bytes
allocated. The [`Coverage` package](https://github.com/JuliaCI/Coverage.jl) contains some elementary
analysis tools, for example to sort the lines in order of number of bytes allocated.

In interpreting the results, there are a few important details. Under the `user` setting, the
first line of any function directly called from the REPL will exhibit allocation due to events
that happen in the REPL code itself. More significantly, JIT-compilation also adds to allocation
counts, because much of Julia's compiler is written in Julia (and compilation usually requires
memory allocation). The recommended procedure is to force compilation by executing all the commands
you want to analyze, then call [`Profile.clear_malloc_data()`](@ref) to reset all allocation counters.
 Finally, execute the desired commands and quit Julia to trigger the generation of the `.mem`
files.

# External Profiling

Currently Julia supports `Intel VTune`, `OProfile` and `perf` as external profiling tools.

Depending on the tool you choose, compile with `USE_INTEL_JITEVENTS`, `USE_OPROFILE_JITEVENTS` and
`USE_PERF_JITEVENTS` set to 1 in `Make.user`. Multiple flags are supported.

Before running Julia set the environment variable `ENABLE_JITPROFILING` to 1.

Now you have a multitude of ways to employ those tools!
For example with `OProfile` you can try a simple recording :

```
>ENABLE_JITPROFILING=1 sudo operf -Vdebug ./julia test/fastmath.jl
>opreport -l `which ./julia`
```

Or similary with `perf` :

```
$ ENABLE_JITPROFILING=1 perf record -o /tmp/perf.data --call-graph dwarf ./julia /test/fastmath.jl
$ perf report --call-graph -G
```

There are many more interesting things that you can measure about your program, to get a comprehensive list
please read the [Linux perf examples page](http://www.brendangregg.com/perf.html).

Remember that perf saves for each execution a `perf.data` file that, even for small programs, can get
quite large. Also the perf LLVM module saves temporarily debug objects in `~/.debug/jit`, remember
to clean that folder frequently.

Commit message:

Link to StatProfileHTML in Profile docs (#32650)
* Link to StatProfileHTML

* Update doc/src/manual/profile.md
Update doc/src/manual/profile.md

Co-Authored-By: Tim Holy <tim.holy@gmail.com>
Apply suggestions from code review

Co-Authored-By: Tim Holy <tim.holy@gmail.com>
Update doc/src/manual/profile.md

Co-Authored-By: Tim Holy <tim.holy@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: Tim Holy <tim.holy@gmail.com>

doc/src/manual/profile.md, after:

# Profiling

The `Profile` module provides tools to help developers improve the performance of their
code. When used, it takes measurements on running code, and produces output that helps you understand
how much time is spent on individual line(s). The most common usage is to identify "bottlenecks"
as targets for optimization.

`Profile` implements what is known as a "sampling" or [statistical profiler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Profiling_(computer_programming)).
 It works by periodically taking a backtrace during the execution of any task. Each backtrace
captures the currently-running function and line number, plus the complete chain of function calls
that led to this line, and hence is a "snapshot" of the current state of execution.

If much of your run time is spent executing a particular line of code, this line will show up
frequently in the set of all backtraces. In other words, the "cost" of a given line--or really,
the cost of the sequence of function calls up to and including this line--is proportional to how
often it appears in the set of all backtraces.

A sampling profiler does not provide complete line-by-line coverage, because the backtraces occur
at intervals (by default, 1 ms on Unix systems and 10 ms on Windows, although the actual scheduling
is subject to operating system load). Moreover, as discussed further below, because samples are
collected at a sparse subset of all execution points, the data collected by a sampling profiler
is subject to statistical noise.

Despite these limitations, sampling profilers have substantial strengths:

  * You do not have to make any modifications to your code to take timing measurements.
  * It can profile into Julia's core code and even (optionally) into C and Fortran libraries.
  * By running "infrequently" there is very little performance overhead; while profiling, your code
    can run at nearly native speed.

For these reasons, it's recommended that you try using the built-in sampling profiler before considering
any alternatives.

## Basic usage

Let's work with a simple test case:

```julia-repl
julia> function myfunc()
           A = rand(200, 200, 400)
           maximum(A)
       end
```

It's a good idea to first run the code you intend to profile at least once (unless you want to
profile Julia's JIT-compiler):

```julia-repl
julia> myfunc() # run once to force compilation
```

Now we're ready to profile this function:

```julia-repl
julia> using Profile

julia> @profile myfunc()
```

To see the profiling results, there are several graphical browsers.
One "family" of visualizers is based on [FlameGraphs.jl](https://github.com/timholy/FlameGraphs.jl), with each family member providing a different user interface:
- [Juno](https://junolab.org/) is a full IDE with built-in support for profile visualization
- [ProfileView.jl](https://github.com/timholy/ProfileView.jl) is a stand-alone visualizer based on GTK
- [ProfileVega.jl](https://github.com/davidanthoff/ProfileVega.jl) uses VegaLight and integrates well with Jupyter notebooks
- [StatProfilerHTML](https://github.com/tkluck/StatProfilerHTML.jl) produces HTML and presents some additional summaries, and also integrates well with Jupyter notebooks
- [ProfileSVG](https://github.com/timholy/ProfileSVG.jl) renders SVG

An entirely independent approach to profile visualization is [PProf.jl](https://github.com/vchuravy/PProf.jl), which uses the external `pprof` tool.

Here, though, we'll use the text-based display that comes with the standard library:

```julia-repl
julia> Profile.print()
80 ./event.jl:73; (::Base.REPL.##1#2{Base.REPL.REPLBackend})()
 80 ./REPL.jl:97; macro expansion
  80 ./REPL.jl:66; eval_user_input(::Any, ::Base.REPL.REPLBackend)
   80 ./boot.jl:235; eval(::Module, ::Any)
    80 ./<missing>:?; anonymous
     80 ./profile.jl:23; macro expansion
      52 ./REPL[1]:2; myfunc()
       38 ./random.jl:431; rand!(::MersenneTwister, ::Array{Float64,3}, ::Int64, ::Type{B...
        38 ./dSFMT.jl:84; dsfmt_fill_array_close_open!(::Base.dSFMT.DSFMT_state, ::Ptr{F...
       14 ./random.jl:278; rand
        14 ./random.jl:277; rand
         14 ./random.jl:366; rand
          14 ./random.jl:369; rand
      28 ./REPL[1]:3; myfunc()
       28 ./reduce.jl:270; _mapreduce(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, ::IndexLinear,...
        3  ./reduce.jl:426; mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, ::Array{F...
        25 ./reduce.jl:428; mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, ::Array{F...
```

Each line of this display represents a particular spot (line number) in the code. Indentation
is used to indicate the nested sequence of function calls, with more-indented lines being deeper
in the sequence of calls. In each line, the first "field" is the number of backtraces
(samples) taken *at this line or in any functions executed by this line*.
The second field is the file name and line number and the third field is the function name.
Note that the specific line numbers may change as Julia's
code changes; if you want to follow along, it's best to run this example yourself.

In this example, we can see that the top level function called is in the file `event.jl`. This is the
function that runs the REPL when you launch Julia. If you examine line 97 of `REPL.jl`,
you'll see this is where the function `eval_user_input()` is called. This is the function that evaluates
what you type at the REPL, and since we're working interactively these functions were invoked
when we entered `@profile myfunc()`. The next line reflects actions taken in the [`@profile`](@ref)
macro.

The first line shows that 80 backtraces were taken at line 73 of `event.jl`, but it's not that
this line was "expensive" on its own: the third line reveals that all 80 of these backtraces
were actually triggered inside its call to `eval_user_input`, and so on. To find out which operations
are actually taking the time, we need to look deeper in the call chain.

The first "important" line in this output is this one:

```
52 ./REPL[1]:2; myfunc()
```

`REPL` refers to the fact that we defined `myfunc` in the REPL, rather than putting it in a file;
if we had used a file, this would show the file name. The `[1]` shows that the function `myfunc`
was the first expression evaluated in this REPL session. Line 2 of `myfunc()` contains the call to
`rand`, and there were 52 (out of 80) backtraces that occurred at this line. Below that, you can
see a call to `dsfmt_fill_array_close_open!` inside `dSFMT.jl`.

A little further down, you see:

```
28 ./REPL[1]:3; myfunc()
```

Line 3 of `myfunc` contains the call to `maximum`, and there were 28 (out of 80) backtraces taken
here. Below that, you can see the specific places in `base/reduce.jl` that carry out the time-consuming
operations in the `maximum` function for this type of input data.

Overall, we can tentatively conclude that generating the random numbers is approximately twice as expensive
as finding the maximum element. We could increase our confidence in this result by
collecting more samples:

```julia-repl
julia> @profile (for i = 1:100; myfunc(); end)

julia> Profile.print()
[....]
 3821 ./REPL[1]:2; myfunc()
  3511 ./random.jl:431; rand!(::MersenneTwister, ::Array{Float64,3}, ::Int64, ::Type...
   3511 ./dSFMT.jl:84; dsfmt_fill_array_close_open!(::Base.dSFMT.DSFMT_state, ::Ptr...
  310  ./random.jl:278; rand
   [....]
 2893 ./REPL[1]:3; myfunc()
  2893 ./reduce.jl:270; _mapreduce(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, ::IndexLinea...
   [....]
```

In general, if you have `N` samples collected at a line, you can expect an uncertainty on the
order of `sqrt(N)` (barring other sources of noise, like how busy the computer is with other tasks).
The major exception to this rule is garbage collection, which runs infrequently but tends to be
quite expensive. (Since Julia's garbage collector is written in C, such events can be detected
using the `C=true` output mode described below, or by using [ProfileView.jl](https://github.com/timholy/ProfileView.jl).)

This illustrates the default "tree" dump; an alternative is the "flat" dump, which accumulates
counts independent of their nesting:

```julia-repl
julia> Profile.print(format=:flat)
 Count File          Line Function
  6714 ./<missing>     -1 anonymous
  6714 ./REPL.jl       66 eval_user_input(::Any, ::Base.REPL.REPLBackend)
  6714 ./REPL.jl       97 macro expansion
  3821 ./REPL[1]        2 myfunc()
  2893 ./REPL[1]        3 myfunc()
  6714 ./REPL[7]        1 macro expansion
  6714 ./boot.jl      235 eval(::Module, ::Any)
  3511 ./dSFMT.jl      84 dsfmt_fill_array_close_open!(::Base.dSFMT.DSFMT_s...
  6714 ./event.jl      73 (::Base.REPL.##1#2{Base.REPL.REPLBackend})()
  6714 ./profile.jl    23 macro expansion
  3511 ./random.jl    431 rand!(::MersenneTwister, ::Array{Float64,3}, ::In...
   310 ./random.jl    277 rand
   310 ./random.jl    278 rand
   310 ./random.jl    366 rand
   310 ./random.jl    369 rand
  2893 ./reduce.jl    270 _mapreduce(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarmax, :...
     5 ./reduce.jl    420 mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarma...
   253 ./reduce.jl    426 mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarma...
  2592 ./reduce.jl    428 mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarma...
    43 ./reduce.jl    429 mapreduce_impl(::Base.#identity, ::Base.#scalarma...
```

If your code has recursion, one potentially-confusing point is that a line in a "child" function
can accumulate more counts than there are total backtraces. Consider the following function definitions:

```julia
dumbsum(n::Integer) = n == 1 ? 1 : 1 + dumbsum(n-1)
dumbsum3() = dumbsum(3)
```

If you were to profile `dumbsum3`, and a backtrace was taken while it was executing `dumbsum(1)`,
the backtrace would look like this:

```julia
dumbsum3
    dumbsum(3)
        dumbsum(2)
            dumbsum(1)
```

Consequently, this child function gets 3 counts, even though the parent only gets one. The "tree"
representation makes this much clearer, and for this reason (among others) is probably the most
useful way to view the results.

## Accumulation and clearing

Results from [`@profile`](@ref) accumulate in a buffer; if you run multiple pieces of code under
[`@profile`](@ref), then [`Profile.print()`](@ref) will show you the combined results. This can
be very useful, but sometimes you want to start fresh; you can do so with [`Profile.clear()`](@ref).

## Options for controlling the display of profile results

[`Profile.print`](@ref) has more options than we've described so far. Let's see the full declaration:

```julia
function print(io::IO = stdout, data = fetch(); kwargs...)
```

Let's first discuss the two positional arguments, and later the keyword arguments:

  * `io` -- Allows you to save the results to a buffer, e.g. a file, but the default is to print to `stdout`
    (the console).
  * `data` -- Contains the data you want to analyze; by default that is obtained from [`Profile.fetch()`](@ref),
    which pulls out the backtraces from a pre-allocated buffer. For example, if you want to profile
    the profiler, you could say:

    ```julia
    data = copy(Profile.fetch())
    Profile.clear()
    @profile Profile.print(stdout, data) # Prints the previous results
    Profile.print()                      # Prints results from Profile.print()
    ```

The keyword arguments can be any combination of:

  * `format` -- Introduced above, determines whether backtraces are printed
     with (default, `:tree`) or without (`:flat`) indentation indicating tree
     structure.
  * `C` -- If `true`, backtraces from C and Fortran code are shown (normally they are excluded). Try running the introductory
    example with `Profile.print(C = true)`. This can be extremely helpful in deciding whether it's
    Julia code or C code that is causing a bottleneck; setting `C = true` also improves the interpretability
    of the nesting, at the cost of longer profile dumps.
  * `combine` -- Some lines of code contain multiple operations; for example, `s += A[i]` contains both an array
    reference (`A[i]`) and a sum operation. These correspond to different lines in the generated
    machine code, and hence there may be two or more different addresses captured during backtraces
    on this line. `combine = true` lumps them together, and is probably what you typically want, but
    you can generate an output separately for each unique instruction pointer with `combine = false`.
  * `maxdepth` -- Limits frames at a depth higher than `maxdepth` in the `:tree` format.
  * `sortedby` -- Controls the order in `:flat` format. `:filefuncline` (default) sorts by the source
    line, whereas `:count` sorts in order of number of collected samples.
  * `noisefloor` -- Limits frames that are below the heuristic noise floor of the sample (only applies to format `:tree`).
    A suggested value to try for this is 2.0 (the default is 0). This parameter hides samples for which `n <= noisefloor * √N`,
    where `n` is the number of samples on this line, and `N` is the number of samples for the callee.
  * `mincount` -- Limits frames with less than `mincount` occurrences.

File/function names are sometimes truncated (with `...`), and indentation is truncated with a
`+n` at the beginning, where `n` is the number of extra spaces that would have been inserted,
had there been room. If you want a complete profile of deeply-nested code, often a good idea is
to save to a file using a wide `displaysize` in an [`IOContext`](@ref):

```julia
open("/tmp/prof.txt", "w") do s
    Profile.print(IOContext(s, :displaysize => (24, 500)))
end
```

## Configuration

[`@profile`](@ref) just accumulates backtraces, and the analysis happens when you call [`Profile.print()`](@ref).
For a long-running computation, it's entirely possible that the pre-allocated buffer for storing
backtraces will be filled. If that happens, the backtraces stop but your computation continues.
As a consequence, you may miss some important profiling data (you will get a warning when that
happens).

You can obtain and configure the relevant parameters this way:

```julia
Profile.init() # returns the current settings
Profile.init(n = 10^7, delay = 0.01)
```

`n` is the total number of instruction pointers you can store, with a default value of `10^6`.
If your typical backtrace is 20 instruction pointers, then you can collect 50000 backtraces, which
suggests a statistical uncertainty of less than 1%. This may be good enough for most applications.

Consequently, you are more likely to need to modify `delay`, expressed in seconds, which sets
the amount of time that Julia gets between snapshots to perform the requested computations. A
very long-running job might not need frequent backtraces. The default setting is `delay = 0.001`.
Of course, you can decrease the delay as well as increase it; however, the overhead of profiling
grows once the delay becomes similar to the amount of time needed to take a backtrace (~30 microseconds
on the author's laptop).

# Memory allocation analysis

One of the most common techniques to improve performance is to reduce memory allocation. The
total amount of allocation can be measured with [`@time`](@ref) and [`@allocated`](@ref), and
specific lines triggering allocation can often be inferred from profiling via the cost of garbage
collection that these lines incur. However, sometimes it is more efficient to directly measure
the amount of memory allocated by each line of code.

To measure allocation line-by-line, start Julia with the `--track-allocation=<setting>` command-line
option, for which you can choose `none` (the default, do not measure allocation), `user` (measure
memory allocation everywhere except Julia's core code), or `all` (measure memory allocation at
each line of Julia code). Allocation gets measured for each line of compiled code. When you quit
Julia, the cumulative results are written to text files with `.mem` appended after the file name,
residing in the same directory as the source file. Each line lists the total number of bytes
allocated. The [`Coverage` package](https://github.com/JuliaCI/Coverage.jl) contains some elementary
analysis tools, for example to sort the lines in order of number of bytes allocated.

In interpreting the results, there are a few important details. Under the `user` setting, the
first line of any function directly called from the REPL will exhibit allocation due to events
that happen in the REPL code itself. More significantly, JIT-compilation also adds to allocation
counts, because much of Julia's compiler is written in Julia (and compilation usually requires
memory allocation). The recommended procedure is to force compilation by executing all the commands
you want to analyze, then call [`Profile.clear_malloc_data()`](@ref) to reset all allocation counters.
 Finally, execute the desired commands and quit Julia to trigger the generation of the `.mem`
files.

# External Profiling

Currently Julia supports `Intel VTune`, `OProfile` and `perf` as external profiling tools.

Depending on the tool you choose, compile with `USE_INTEL_JITEVENTS`, `USE_OPROFILE_JITEVENTS` and
`USE_PERF_JITEVENTS` set to 1 in `Make.user`. Multiple flags are supported.

Before running Julia set the environment variable `ENABLE_JITPROFILING` to 1.

Now you have a multitude of ways to employ those tools!
For example with `OProfile` you can try a simple recording :

```
>ENABLE_JITPROFILING=1 sudo operf -Vdebug ./julia test/fastmath.jl
>opreport -l `which ./julia`
```

Or similary with `perf` :

```
$ ENABLE_JITPROFILING=1 perf record -o /tmp/perf.data --call-graph dwarf ./julia /test/fastmath.jl
$ perf report --call-graph -G
```

There are many more interesting things that you can measure about your program, to get a comprehensive list
please read the [Linux perf examples page](http://www.brendangregg.com/perf.html).

Remember that perf saves for each execution a `perf.data` file that, even for small programs, can get
quite large. Also the perf LLVM module saves temporarily debug objects in `~/.debug/jit`, remember
to clean that folder frequently.
